Aug 15, 2011
Rise of the Planet of the Apes and Cyphan Con 2011
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xhp20mMmPCI
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/103211131748892673
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/257724964245213
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10150265618422634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-rise-of-the-planet-of-the-apes-and-cyphan-con-2011

Half in the bag.
The devil is my hairdo?
Hey guys, welcome to another episode of Half in the Bag.
I'm Jay.
And I'm Mike.
And this week we saw Rise of the Planet of the Apes.
Rise of the Planet of the Apes is a prequel to the successful Planet of the Apes series.
This film stars James Franco and a CGI monkey.
So, Jay, what did you think of Rise of the Planet of the Apes, or ROTPOTA, as it will soon be called.
ROTPOTA.
Yes, yes.
Uh, well, I guess the big question is, does the world really need a Planet of the Apes prequel?
No.
The answer, of course, is no.
but the world now has a prequel to Planet of the Apes, and it's really damn good.
So good, it justifies its pointless existence.
Wow.
Wow.
You're, you're going with the really damn good.
Really?
Yeah.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Yeah, I agree, I enjoyed the film.
It took a lot to warm me up to it, but when I was warmed up to it, I enjoyed it.
I was very impressed with the movie, uh, primarily the fact that they were able to make a coherent story using leftover footage of James Franco's other films.
It, it really was impressive how it took, yeah, different scenes and different shots from his previous movies...
Yeah.
...edited it in a way where it almost, you almost believe he's interacting with these creatures.
Right, right.
You almost believe he was there...
Yeah.
...filming in this movie.
It's impressive with this movie how the, the human characters are the least sympathetic, and the least human, uh, in the movie.
And everything with the apes, I thought, was, was fantastic.
Yeah.
I, I really, it did a great job of getting you emotionally invested in these completely animated monkeys.
Yeah.
Well, you do become emotionally invested towards the end.
It, for me, and probably for most audiences, it takes a while to warm up to it.
I absolutely hated the first 15-20 minutes of the movie.
I hate science movies when, when it's, it's, it felt like a, like a trailer, like, it's like I've discovered the chemical.
Nope, we've got to get that chemical on the market in five minutes.
It's so simplistic.
Like, have you ever seen the movie called Splice?
Yes, yes.
You have.
Um, I liked that movie.
I liked the premise.
I liked the, the character conflicts, and all the drama in that movie.
But the, the science scenes, I just hated.
I hated the fact that they had to be, like, cool rock star scientists with their leather jackets and they're, like, yeah, we're hip, we're scientists.
And, and it's, like, you have this giant monitor, and it's, like, DNA 100% match.
Well, that, that's like in a lot of 80s movies, whenever anyone is using a computer, all they do is sort of mash their fingers on the keys, and things happen on the screen.
It makes no sense.
And I completely understand the need to simplify down those elements to tell the story, like...
Sure.
You know, but, but I was like, oh, god, you know, are they really bringing the ape up to the boardroom with all the investors there?
That didn't bother me so much in this movie, because that's not really the focus of the movie.
It's more about the ape and what happens to him afterwards, so...
Right, right.
Once, I, I didn't love the first part, but I...
No.
...where the movie really kicked off for me was when the Caesar character, uh, was getting older, learning things, and he really does have quite an arc throughout the course of the movie.
All the human parts seem to just stick out, like, sort of um...
Yeah, especially as the movie goes along.
Yeah, you kind of...
It kind of focuses more and more on the apes, and then it keeps, and then it'll cut back to the humans, and you're, like, I don't care about any of these people.
Yeah.
Like, get back to the apes.
They're great.
Well, I think that's what it wanted to do.
Yeah.
Maybe that's why they casted James Franco, was because he's such a, to me, he's such a non-presence.
This, especially in this movie, he's just, like, a blank slate.
Yeah, well, he's got that, like, that dumb look on his face all the time, and he always looks like he's stoned.
Yeah.
He can be good he can be good on the right parts I.
recently saw 127 Hours, and he's really good in...it's not a very good movie, in my opinion, but he's really good in it.
Yeah.
Uh, but this is one of those, I don't know if it's like a, just him as, like, actor for hire, cuz he's sort of a weird artsy guy.
Yeah.
And this is just sort of, like, him getting a paycheck.
I was very happy to see a beautiful Indian woman in the lead romantic interest role.
You don't see a lot of, like, Indian women in lead roles...
It's true.
...in Hollywood movies.
I was expecting, like, some dumb bimbo to be in there.
Kate Bosworth is an, is an actress.
Kate Bosworth, yeah.
And she was great, uh, I mean her character was.
There was no character.
That, that was, that was kind of shocking was, like, it's like he takes the monkey to a vet, and I'm, like, oh, it's the vet character.
Yeah.
And then he's, like, he wants me to take you out to dinner, and then it's, like, oh, does he know her previously?
And then the next scene, they're, they're dating.
Yeah.
And I was, like, okay.
It's not, like, uh, uh, like Captain America, where their relationship stuff is brushed over, but that's a major part of the movie.
Yeah.
That, that, and it was so early on, that it doesn't really affect the story but then again, neither does anything with the girlfriend character.
I don't know.
I just thought that was unique.
And same with the, the boss at the the Gen-Sys, was a black guy with an English accent.
Yeah.
He was, he was the money-grubbing CEO.
It wasn't a bald white man.
Yes.
I'm, I don't care about anything but profits.
But, he, he was kind of a villain character.
Mm-hmm.
Um, and, and I thought that was unique.
It wasn't typical.
Yeah.
Same with the choice of the female lead.
Mm-hmm.
I thought it was weird to have John Lithgow in there.
He, he, you look at him, and he's instantly funny.
It's just John Lithgow's face.
I think they picked him because John Lithgow looks like, like Droopy.
Sure.
The dog.
He does!
He has, like, a...
Yeah.
Like, a sympathetic face.
He doesn't, like, you don't cast Anthony Hopkins in that role.
Right.
Anthony Hopkins looks like a mean motherfucker.
Mm-hmm.
And, and you don't cast him in the sympathetic, oh, I have Alzheimer's...
Yeah.
Where's my brain?
You don't...
Cuz you're, like, that's Hannibal Lecter.
Yes.
Yeah.
Or, or Terence Stamp, or someone else like that who just looks mean.
Yeah.
You cast Jonathan Lith-, John Lithgow.
Jonathan Lipnicki.
You cast John Lithgow, who looks like a sympathetic old guy, but at the same time, you're like, he's funny.
Yeah.
And then, and then there's a scene where he thinks he's getting into his car, and he's smashing it, and all I did was replace the music in my brain, and it was, hey, that's my car!
Oh, no!
And I was just giggling to myself.
Yeah.
This, this movie, I really did like it a lot, but it does have a lot of really unintentionally funny things in it.
Yes.
The neighbor character.
The, the poor neighbor character.
I think he's supposed to be a dick in the movie, but every time you see him in the movie, he's just, something horrible happens to him.
He was just trying to protect his children from the wild gorillas.
I know.
I just felt bad, like, like, I picture him, like, it's a living nightmare living next to you, James Franco!
So there is a tremendous amount of CGI in the movie.
Uh, the Apes are completely CGI through the whole thing.
Uh, what did you think about the effects in the film?
Well, at first, I thought, oh, no.
It's this.
And after a while, it really grows on you.
Um, and there are parts where the apes don't look completely realistic, but you can't just, I've seen some comments go, you know those CGI apes are terrible, and they just, like, disregard everything, like, all that hard work.
Yeah.
All that, and it's, like, it's, it's really good.
Well, my, my concern before seeing the movie is actually similar to a concern I had before Lord of the Rings came out, which was, uh, before that movie came out, I heard that they were taking regular actors and digitally shrinking them to play hobbits.
Mmm.
And I was like, that's lame.
Just cast a bunch of midgets.
It worked so well in Willow.
Um, but then I saw the movie, and of course I had to, to eat my words on that.
And it was similar to this, where I heard that there was CG apes the whole movie.
Mm-hmm.
They're never realistic, and I was like, oh, come on, just cast real apes, and do some digital trickery for certain things if you need to.
But when you see the movie, I think it works better having them CG through the whole thing...
Yeah.
...because do you get accustomed to it.
And it would be, like, in Spider-Man, the Spider-Man movie, whenever you see Peter Parker, and it's just him in his outfit, and then he jumps off a building, and it immediately cuts to CG Peter Parker.
Mm-hmm.
And it is completely jarring and takes you out of the scene.
Yeah.
And had they done that with this, cutting back and forth, I, I don't think it would have, would have worked.
It, it's very seamless, and after a while, you just start to accept it.
Yeah.
And you don't even really think about it as effects anymore.
You can complain about CGI all you want, but this is a movie where it works to the movie's advantage...
Yeah.
Completely.
Well, and there's a lot of movies where the CGI work in it just feels, like, you know work-for-hire, where it's just slapped-in effects.
This is one where you can really tell that there was a, a deliberate attempt made to really sort of push the technology forward.
Sure.
In a positive way.
Yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
Unlike, like Lucas's prequel films.
Right.
Where he's pushing technology to be more lazy.
yes.
We can just put all-fake backgrounds everywhere.
I'm changing the face of cinema, like I did in the 70's.
Yeah.
And you're, like, oh no.
With any movie, you know, I mean, you can take a movie from the past that has just terrible special effects, you know, dated special effects, but if you care about the characters and what's going on, then...
Sure.
...that, that can go away.
And we're, we're talking about being adjusted to really good special effects.
Yeah.
The whole middle section of the movie is all apes.
It's the character, Caeser, in the ape prison, you know, slowly working his escape plan, and slowly becoming smarter, and all that.
Yeah.
It's, it's really well done.
Mm-hmm.
And it's, um, but, but it's, like, and then we cut back to James Franco, he's like, wanna come back home with me, Caesar?
And it's like, why would he want that?
Who are you?
Why are you in this movie?
What's going on?
Yeah.
We don't, I don't care about you.
None of the humans are particularly good or memorable in this.
They all get upstaged by the apes, which I know, the apes are the stars, but...
Well, when the movie opens, they, they show a poaching scene, and I'm, like, okay, here we go.
Humans are bad...
You were worried about a...
Apes are gonna destroy the world.
But it, it, that, it becomes very different.
Yeah.
The story becomes much different than that, and, and I really was expecting apes to start just slaughtering people by the dozen, you know, at the end of the movie, and everyone going, yay.
Yeah.
Get those bad humans.
Well, um, and the other end of that...
Completely not bad.
Yeah, I was also expecting there to be more cruelty towards the apes than there was.
Yes.
There is some, but it's mild.
Um, and I, I was really expecting them to push that way too far.
Yeah, but they didn't...
And it, and it handled that without getting too manipulative.
I do feel like a fool talking about these movies as they're, them being, like, smart entertainment, because this isn't.
I mean, there's a lot of movies out there that are so much smarter.
I just wanted to point this on to the audience.
This is in context of summer movies.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
Not in context of movies, cuz I pointed out that Cowboys and Aliens was a cinematic bowel movement.
I specifically meant in context of summer movies.
Sure.
And, and this movie, we're talking about apes running at humans and, and how it's done tastefully.
Yeah.
And, and we're just in this mindset of summer movies being horribly stupid.
Yeah.
And I've seen a lot of them.
Well, there's an inherent silliness to the entire Planet of the Apes idea.
All these movies.
Like, I always think, when I think of the first movie, I think of, like, only in the 60's.
Mm-hmm.
Only in the 60's would they make a movie like that seriously, where I'm picturing 'em, like, you know what would be crazy, man?
If, like, apes ran the world, and we were kept in cages.
Yeah.
Right.
You just blew my mind.
Right.
Two guys and a monkey.
It says so much about, like, society...
And stuff.
And politics and stuff, like...
Yeah.
But the movie's play it completely straight, and those movies have sort of a campy quality to them now.
Yes, definitely.
And, and this movie does have a lot of unintentionally funny stuff with the apes, but, uh, the fact that the ape characters are, are sympathetic and well-drawn sort of balances that out a bit.
Yeah.
It's believable enough for what it is.
It's as well-done of a movie as you'll get with that subject matter.
Yeah.
Well, also science fiction-related, we recently attended Cyphan Con, which is a convention in Chicago, Illinois.
It's the second year they've done it, and it's dedicated to science fiction, steampunk, comic books, cosplay, steampunk, Star Wars, Star Trek, steampunk, and steampunk.
Oh, don't forget steampunk.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
They also had steampunk there.
Well, you mentioned Star Trek, they had a lot of Star Trek things there, but most importantly, they had Star Trek trivia, which I participated in.
How'd you do at Star Trek trivia?
Well, I'm glad you asked, Jay, because my team won.
Oh, what'd you win?
I won this, this toy.
What is that?
What do you mean, what is it?
It's a Klingon disruptor from Star Trek: Generations.
Oh, that's your favorite Star Trek movie, right?
You're right.
It is.
Bam!
So the Cyphan Con also had a film festival going on during it.
Uh, mostly horror films.
Low-budget horror films, um, our fucking horrible flop movie Feeding Frenzy played in the film festival.
I've had the frenzies before for other things, but not Feeding Frenzy.
And, uh, after the screening, we did a Q&A.
So, yeah, that was really great.
After the screening, to meet some of the fan that showed up and, and field the question.
The convention had a lot of guests, too.
Robert Picardo was there.
He played the doctor in Star Trek: Voyager.
Did you know what this is from?
I have no idea what it's from, but I just thought it looked science fiction-y, and I'm happy we're here.
You're a big Star Trek fan.
I'm a big Joe Dante fan.
And he, he falls into both worlds.
Gremlins 2, Innerspace.
You were the, uh...
I've probably done 15 jobs with Joe.
My between-the-scenes cutting up on, on The Howling, which was primarily a dramatic role, showed him that I, that I had a good sense of humor and, and then most of the other roles I've done for him since then have been comedic.
And speaking of Joe Dante, Robert Picardo was in Gremlins 2, with Zach Galligan.
And then Zach Galligan later appears on Star Trek: Voyager.
You do run into people that you work with years before.
As time goes by and you've, everybody remains in the profession, and everybody has, uh, you know, uh, a working career and a successful career, instead of looking at them as your competitors, they really become your old friends.
And I even asked him what it was like to work with Andy Dick.
I remember the first thing he said to me was, your name Picardo is so close to Captain Picard.
Mm-hmm.
Do you get teased a lot?
And I said, wait a minute, your name is Andy Dick, and you're gonna make fun of mine?
And they have this little close up boxes in TV Guide that feature...
Yeah.
...a special episode, or a special guest star.
I was a little afraid of the, you know, if they had a picture of me and Andy Dick, what the head-, what the caption might be, you know?
Picardo Loves Dick.
Picardo Handles Dick.
Picardo and Dick Inseparable.
So on one of Robert Picardo's glossy pictures that he sells his autograph on, I noticed he was holding a thrombic modulator.
Oh.
And it's actually in the Andy Dick episode.
Hmm.
Where him and Andy Dick played gay Holograms that save a Starfleet ship.
He, he signed his picture to us, from the keeper of the thrombic modulator.
But Jay, you also met, uh, an actor that you are just enamored with.
It made my whole weekend.
Hey, guys.
We're at Cyphan 2011, and normally when we go to these conventions, I don't get into the whole dressing up thing, but when I found out Richard Hatch was gonna be here, I decided to get my cosplay on, and go as Dan Roebuck from Prisoners of the Lost
Universe.
Guess who I'm dressed as?
I'm Dan Roebuck from Prisoners of the Lost Universe.
That's obscure.
All right.
We're here with Richard Hatch, who of course, everyone knows from Battlestar Galactica.
But I personally am a big fan of a movie called Prisoners of the Lost Universe.
Oh, my god.
No!
You know, the falling dead people off the cliff scene was probably one of the worst ones in history, but it's so bad that it's probably funny.
I'm glad you like it.
I hope you bought up the only remaining copy.
I want you to sign this little document that says you will never let it out of your hands, and if you decide you don't want it anymore, you will burn it.
What's a convention without Rich Evans, the most awkward, uncomfortable person around.
Hi, this is Rich Evans at the Cyphan Con at the Hyatt in Rosemont, Illinois.
Who are you dressed as today, sir?
We talked to some stormtroopers.
How are you doing today, sir?
Stormtrooper: I'm doing all right.
We talked to some attractive ladies.
Mmm.
Pin-up girl: I'm here with, uh, Riverwalk Pin Up Studios.
Um, we're a studio located out of, um, Evanson, and we do an array of pinup fantasy-type photo shoots.
He, he wanted to talk to them specifically.
Why would he want to talk to attractive women?
I think he's a sex pervert.
How do you feel about our current national debt crisis?
That may be the most insightful commentary I have heard on the issue.
Bam!
So.
we had an interesting time at Cyphan Con this year.
It's a, it's a smaller convention.
Mm-hmm.
Cuz it's only in its second year, but all big things start somewhere.
And so maybe someday it might be a huge convention, but, um, what else happened at Cyphan Con, other than you got raped in the parking lot?
