Mar 26, 2011
Paul and Toronto Comic Con
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x0qExBm4mi8
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/51822768077029376
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/204388462924493
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-episode-3-paul-and-toronto-comic-con

["Half in the bag!"]
["Fuck movies."]
Mike: Oh, hey, you owe me four bucks for this beer, you cheap fuck.
Mike: How's the VCR repair work going?
Jay: Oh, pretty good.
Jay: Uh, I've spent almost the entire day trying to wear down the batteries on this flashlight.
Mike: Oh.
Jay: It's almost everything.
Jay: How long have we been working on this VCR now?
Mike: Oh, geez, several weeks, at least.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: It's a good thing this old bastard has no concept of time. 
Mike: I, I think that's because he died.
Jay: Oh, really?
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: He went into the bathroom, like, three days ago, and he hasn't come out.
Jay: I guess that would explain the pool of blood that's forming outside the door there.
Mike: And the smell of decomposating humans.
Jay: It does smell a bit like an open grave in here. 
Mike: We'll give it a couple days, and if he doesn't come out of the bathroom, we'll just steal everything in his house.
Jay: Okay.
Mike: And then we can, we could burn it down to get rid of the evidence.
Jay: That sounds good.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Oh, hi!
Jay: Oh, hi!
Mike: Welcome to Half in the Bag.
Mike: I'm Mike.
Jay: And I'm Jay.
Mike: And we're just a couple of horrible frauds that pretend to fix a VCR while we milk an elderly man out of his life savings.
Mike: And we talk about movies!
Jay: Yeah, that's right.
Jay: Uh, we've noticed a theme developing on the previous episodes we've done so far.
Jay: On our first episode, we talked about The Adjustment Bureau and Drive Angry, and we just saw these movies completely at random, and it turned out that they both had, sort of, spiritual themes.
Mike: And our second episode dealt primarily with aliens invading earth.
Mike: The film Battle: Los Angeles was about sophisticated hostile aliens attacking the city of Los Angeles, things blowing up, amazing special effects, and action sequences.
Mike: And the other film was Galaxy Invader.
Jay: And we realized that this week, both of the topics we're going to be touching on deal with geek culture.
Jay: Hh, the first being the movie Paul, starring Simon Pegg and Nick Frost, and the second being our trip to the Toronto Comic Con.
Mike: Both felt very connected, and it's kind of funny.
Mike: In Paul, there's a scene where there's, like, a state trooper, and he asks them why they're in America.
Mike: They're like, well, we're going to the Comic Con.
Mike: And he's like, what?
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: What's the Comic Con, you nerds?
Mike: And then the exact same thing happened to us as we crossed over from the United States into Canada.
Mike: You know, she's checking the car and asks us why we were in Canada, and we're like, wWe're going to the Comic Con.
Mike: What?
Mike: She didn't know what the Comic Con was, and then she looked it up on the computer.
Jay: At least in the movie Paul, they weren't given the full body cavity searches like we were.
Mike: I don't think that was very necessary.
Jay: No.
Mike: I mean, I know it's Canada and all, but, did they really have to use moose antlers?
Jay: So, in the movie Paul, Simon Pegg and Nick Frost play a couple of English tourists that are travelling across America to visit all the famous alien hotspots, like the black mailbox in Area 51, and along the way they meet a real alien named Paul, who's on the run from the government.
Jay: Mike, what did you think of this movie?
Mike: I, I rather enjoyed Paul.
Mike: The, the trailer for this movie was, was just terrible.
Jay: It was pretty bad.
Mike: Would you agree on that?
Jay: Yeah, it was, it was very, it made the movie look really broad, and really stupid, dumb, like, stoner humor, and, and crotch kicks.
Mike: And a couple of the jokes in the trailer didn't quite hit home for me.
Mike: And then I saw that they wrote it together, and I was like, well, there has to be something to this movie.
Jay: Right.
Mike: And then I saw it, and...it's a winner.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: For me.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Um, your thoughts on it?
Jay: I, I, well, I think that Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz are probably two of the best comedies of the last ten years.
Jay: I think they're both incredibly sharp, incredibly clever, uh, well-executed movies, and I was worried that this was going to be sort of a dumbed down, broad, sort of more American-style comedy, which is what the trailers make it look like.
["Don't worry, I got it all under con--"]
Mike: Um, Paul is a very likable alien.
Mike: Um, he's not written too goofy...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...too whacky, too over-the-top, and the CGI is not, like, awesome or amazing or completely believable, but it doesn't matter if the character comes through.
Jay: Yeah, I guess because of the performance by Seth Rogen, you just sort of watch it as another character in the movie.
Jay: Um, the interaction between him and all the live actors feels pretty genuine.
Mike: Seth Rogen does a really good job playing that character, playing sort of a laid-back kind of schlubby fun guy.
Jay: He's just another dude.
Mike: But, it was just, like, the voice didn't quite match with the, the look of the character.
Jay: It didn't seem right, the--
Mike: It stood out.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: After a while, though, I mean it's, it's well done enough to where, after a while you get used to it, but for the first like half of the movie, it kind of sticks out like voiceover.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: Well, the whole movie sort of feels like an attempt to sort of meld two styles of comedy, because you've got Simon Pegg and Nick Frost, and, and the stuff they did with Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz, but then you also have Greg Mottola, who directed this, and Seth Rogen, who kind of, they both sort of come from the Judd Apatow--
Mike: Right.
Jay: --school of comedy, so trying to meld those two styles, one incredibly clever and smart and funny and, sort of, not dumb, but more lowbrow--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --humor, and trying to meld those two together...
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: ...as far as the tone goes.
Mike: It's a traditional, kind of, roadtrip movie.
Jay: Mm-hmm.
Mike: And, and, and where it uses this road tripness...
Jay: Roadtrippery?
Mike: ...roadtrippery appropriately.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, yeah, I, I agree as far as, like Shaun of the Dead goes, it didn't reach, like, those heights of emotional-ness.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And this movie got edges, and a little more middle-of-the-road, but, um, very entertaining.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: Well, there, there is a moment in this movie where, that reminded me a bit more of Shaun of the Dead, where Paul is reunited with, who, the little girl, that's, he first saw him when he first crash-landed on earth.
Jay: Now she's, it's sixty years later, and, and they have sort of an emotional moment.
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: And that reminded me a bit more of the, the tone--
Mike: Yes.
Jay: --of something like Shaun of the Dead.
["Tell me which way the little green guy went."]
["Why are we holding hands?"]
["So we look like a family."]
["Just a couple of regular guys walking down the street with a small cowboy."]
Mike: I, I think what drives this movie are the two main characters.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: In Paul, um, they, they work very well together, of course, as they have in the past.
Jay: Right.
Mike: Those two guys, like, Simon Pegg specifically, very good at, um, subtleties...
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: ...in their performance.
Mike: Um, there's, there's a moment where they, they take out their, I don't know what, what it was, it was like some sort of--
Jay: The little visor with the flashlight on it?
Mike: --visor with a flashlight.
Mike: I'm sure it was some sort of nerd, it's like a Wonder Woman logo...
Jay: I don't know what it was.
Mike: ...it, it was something.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And then he's like, looking at, at something, and, and Nick Frost is to the left of him, and he looks at Nick Frost, and then Nick Frost looks at him, and then they both, like, get hit in the eyes with it.
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: And it's, and it wasn't like, like this big joke, it was just a really subtle--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: There's lots of little moments like that in the movie that I appreciated, and, um, and they didn't play up the drug references too much.
Mike: There's one great scene where Kristen Wiig smokes, smokes pot for the first time.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And she does a bang-up job.
Mike: I really like her.
Jay: Well, that's an interesting character, too.
Jay: Her sort of, the way her character evolves over the course of the movie, I thought was fun, because it could have just been the typical girlfriend.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: All these movies have the, the girlfriends, and this woman actually did something a little more interesting with it, where she starts out, she's very religious, she's very Christian.
Jay: She sees Paul, and that makes her question all of her beliefs.
Mike: Yeah, and a bit of cleverness in the script, too.
Mike: Little metaphorical.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Not too over-the-top, like, it wasn't a coincidence that Paul repaired her eye, you know, he helped her see-- 
Jay: Right.
Mike: --um, the truths of the universe and, um--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --fixed her vision.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And even, even little details in the script, um, were set up.
Mike: There, they have their first kiss moment.
Jay: Oh, yeah.
Mike: And they're looking into this store window, and they show, um, like, they're like, this is an awful window display, isn't it?
Mike: And they're just making small talk, and they show the little cowboy outfit--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --that they use later in the film--
Jay: Right.
Mike: --when they dress up the alien.
Mike: They could have just dressed up the alien in a stupid outfit and went, he's in a stupid outfit.
Jay: That's prevalent through all the previous movies that Simon Pegg has written, too.
Jay: Yeah, he's very much, attention to detail, attention to set up, and pay off.
Jay: And, uh, yeah, for the most part this movie does that.
Mike: So why Simon Pegg and Nick Frost don't have more feature films as, say, um, let's say, uh, M. Night Shyamalan, is beyond me.
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Jay: There are elements of this that reminded me a bit of a Kevin Smith movie, in the sense that there's sort of a non-stop barrage of sort of pop-culture references.
Jay: Uh, in this movie, specifically, sort of sci-fi and sort of geek culture comic book references.
Jay: Uh, in a Kevin Smith movie, they're very, sort of, blatant.
Jay: It's just sort of like referencing things, referencing things.
Jay: In this one, at least for the first hour or so, the first two acts of the movie, they're sort of integrated a bit better into sort of the characters and the dialogue.
Jay: Uh, at a certain point in the movie, though, it feels like it sort of becomes guess the reference, where it's just, they're just literally saying lines from other movies...
Mike: Do you think that was self-referential?
Jay: Like, intentionally being, uh over the top, and--
Mike: Yeah, I have to, I have to wonder.
Jay: It may have been, because they're smart guys, so it's possible that they're, got to a certain point where they're like, "Sigourney Weaver's gonna get into a fight with someone, and the person's gonna say to Sigourney Weaver, uh, leave her alone, you bitch," and I just pictured them, like, giggling like geeks--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --as they're writing it.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: So, it's possible.
Mike: Like, I, I, Simon Pegg at one point, like when they're talking about the truck, you know, he's like, he's like, I can't believe she's gone, and it's just the way, the way he says it, it's like--
Jay: Oh, yeah.
Mike: --Luke saying, "I can't believe he's gone," about Obi-Wan, and then even when the house blows up, it really reminded me, and I don't know if this was intentional or not, but it really reminded me of when Jabba's palace ship blows up in Jedi.
Mike: Like, the same way.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, and...
Jay: It doesn't feel, in that case, it doesn't feel like a direct reference, but it feels like something, when they're writing it, they're writing the house blows up, and it'll be similar to--
Mike: Like, with a Kevin Smith movie, it's like, this is a movie about relationships, and we're going to shove in Star Wars references.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: The point of this movie was to nerds who write comic books, go to Comic Con, and their dream, they're like fantasy nerds--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And they really live out the sci-fi adventure in real life.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: So it's appropriate.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: That they have the scene that's similar to escaping the, the Jabba palace slave shit.
Jay: Right.
Jay: Well, and it's nice to see a comedy like this, because we've gotten so used to sort of the Judd Apatow School of Comedy, where they're all, they're all shot very flat.
Jay: All the comedies are just shot very boring.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: And this is one, uh, the director, Greg Mottola, I don't know if you've seen his previous movies.
Jay: Um, he did Superbad, and he did a movie that's really underrated, called Adventureland.
Mike: Superman?
Jay: He did the Superman movie, yeah.
Jay: Everyone thinks it was Bryan Singer, but it was actually, uh, but then he followed that up with a movie called Adventureland which is, sort of, more of a--
Mike: Zombieland?
Jay: No.
Jay: It's, it's nice to see a comedy that pays as much attention to these sort of visuals and the visual language of film as it does towards actually making jokes.
Jay: It's very Spielberg-ian.
Mike: It was a little Spielberg.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Yeah, and...
Jay: Which makes sense, given some of the other stuff.
Mike: I think it was, yeah, intentional--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --to look like an alien movie.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: My other issue with Paul was, um, when, when we went to see the film, I asked the the box office person, I said, how's Paul doing?
Mike: You know, and she's like, oh, it's doing good, you know, lot of people say they really, really like it, you know.
Mike: And, um, but, she says, it is an adult film.
Mike: That was the exact words.
Jay: Did she say that?
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: I don't remember that.
Mike: She said that.
Jay: Oh.
Mike: I was like, it's an adult film?
Mike: And, and, she was, well, you know, it's, it's an R-rated film, so it's not selling as many tickets as, as it should, or whatever.
Mike: And I said, oh, okay, you know, and then watching the movie halfway through, I was like, why is this an R film?
Mike: You know, nothing in this film is, is R-rated to me.
Mike: And then, towards the ends, halfway through, the dialogue starts to become kind of raunchy.
Mike: There's more F-words.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Sigourney Weaver starts throwing around the F-word.
Jay: Sigourney Weaver got a potty mouth in this movie.
Mike: And, and to me, the script felt smarter than the F-word.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: They could have really made this a PG-13.
Jay: It could have been a PG-13, yeah.
Mike: And that was my only, like, it's not even a problem, because I'm of course old enough to see an R-rated movie, so it doesn't bother me--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --but just from a, from a marketing, and from a financial perspective, they could have wrote the scripts in a PG-13 way, and had the movie still work.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: There's a lot of movies that have been made PG-13, where you're just like, the movie You've Stolen My Daughter, starring Liam Neeson...
Jay: Was that the actual title of the movie?
Mike: That was the actu--
Jay: You've Stolen My Daughter?
Mike: You've Stolen My Daughter and I'm Going to Kill Everyone in My Path to Get Her Back, that was the actual name of the, I don't even remember, what was it called?
Jay: Taken?
Mike: Taken, yes.
Jay: I don't, I never saw it.
Mike: And not the mini-series about alien abductions, produced by Steven Spielberg.
Mike: It was called Taken.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: The whole movie is him murdering everyone in his sight.
Mike: And there's no blood anywhere.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ecause it would have been given an R-rating.
Mike: And there's no F-words, there's no blood.
Mike: He shoots people, and then they die.
Mike: They just fall down.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And they go, oh...!
Jay: Like an old 1950's movie.
Mike: And, and towards the end, I was like, "Is this movie rated R?"
Mike: And then I come out of the theater, and I look at the poster, I was like, "G?!"
Mike: And I was like, that movie, like, no kid is gonna go watch Taken.
Jay: Right.
Mike: But kids are gonna--not kids, but young adults-- are gonna want to see Paul.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: In a movie like Paul, the vulgarity isn't necessary.
Mike: Right.
Mike: It was smart enough--
Jay: It was smart enough, and it was funny enough, and clever enough, where it didn't need to rely on cheap swear words.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: So, um, overall, final thoughts on Paul?
Jay: Uh, Paul is a very funny movie.
Jay: Very charming.
Jay: Relatively clever.
Jay: Uh, doesn't reach the heights of Shaun of the Dead or Hot Fuzz, but I don't know if it possibly could because those two movies are nearly perfect.
Jay: But a very funny movie, uh, a great cast, and, uh, yeah, a lot of good, kind of, geeky references.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: I, I would agree.
Mike: Um, I would not compare it, I would not want to compare it to Shaun of the Dead.
Mike: Wouldn't be, wouldn't be fair.
Jay: It, for me, it's hard not to.
Mike: As a standalone movie, just pretend you haven't seen any films that they've done before, um...
Jay: Well, if that's the case, then it's definitely an above-average comedy.
Mike: Yes, yes.
Mike: Um, considering what I was expecting, and what I got, I was very satisfied with Paul.
Mike: Um, I would recommend it.
Mike: Definitely.
Jay: Oh, yeah.
Jay: Absolutely.
Mike: To everyone, including grandma.
Jay: If she likes to hear phrases like titty fart.
Mike: Grandma would like this movie.
Jay: Grandma would like this movie?
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: Yeah, it's not Goodfellas, you know.
Jay: No, that's true.
Mike: Grandma won't have a heart attack watching it.
Mike: It's, you know, grandma's heard the F-word before.
Jay: Oh, god, yeah.
Mike: Grandma's done the F-word before.
Mike: That's why she's grandma.
Mike: So, on to our next topic.
Jay: Well, uh, speaking of geek culture and comic book conventions, the opening scene of Paul takes place at the San Diego Comic Con, and we just got back from the Toronto Comic Con.
Mike: That's right.
Mike: We traveled all the way up to Toronto from Milwaukee, Wisconsin--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --to attend and to have a booth at the Toronto Wizard World Comic Con, where we met lots of cool Canadians, eh?
Mike: And, uh, had a lot of funl up there.
Jay: Absolutely, yeah.
Jay: Let's, uh, let's take a look.
Mike: Hello, this is Mike Stoklasa, and we're at the Toronto Comic Con here.
Mike: Red Letter Media representing, uh, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, way up in the great white north known as Canada.
Mike: Uh, the convention was good.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: We got to meet Jake Lloyd, and, uh, I interviewed Dustin Diamonds, uh, Screech from Saved by the Bell.
Jay: And who also played Screech on Saved by the Bell.
Mike: But, but I said that.
Jay: But, then, did you mention the fact that he played Screech, too?
Mike: I don't think so, in addition to his other famous roles?
Jay: He also played Screech.
Mike: Did he?
Mike: He was Screech?
Jay: He was Screech in Saved by the Bell.
Mike: He was also on Celebrity Boxing.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: The, uh--
Jay: You were, you were, you, you're like fixated on Celebrity Boxing.
Mike: It was a very short-lived program, and to me, it, it was the bottom of the barrel, as far as entertainment goes.
Mike: It was like, it was like a throwback to the Roman Coliseum.
Mike: Screech fought Horshack from Welcome Back Kotter.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: And I guess they paired them up because they were both the, the whacky comic relief on the, the series.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, um, Screech was probably 25 or younger at the time, and Horshack was probably 50, and, um, and, and Dustin just beat, beat the shit out of him.
Mike: So, I asked Dustin if he, like, felt bad about that, and, um, and this is how that went.
Mike: When you were on Celebrity Boxing, did you feel bad about kicking Horshack's ass horribly?
Dustin: No, no, it's all TV, I mean, I mean, everyone signed up, they knew what they were getting involved in.
Dustin: The gloves were super, super padded.
Dustin: I mean, they used, you know, they weren't the 8-ounce gloves that regular boxers use.
Dustin: We use, they weren't the big giant, carnival gloves, but they might as well have been, you know.
Dustin: We had the head protection and everything else, and, uh...
Mike: As I saw that, it was pretty brutal.
Mike: And, then, then you got to interview, um, uh, a famous Kids in the Hall actor.
Jay: I got to interview Scott Thompson, which was really exciting, because I'm a huge Kids in the Hall fan.
Jay: And, uh, he was there promoting his new graphic novel, Danny Husk and the Hollow Planet.
Mike: Danny Husk and the Hollow Planet?
Jay: There you go.
Jay: He actually kind of hit on me.
Jay: It was weird.
Jay: It was awkward.
Mike: What did he do?
Jay: He, well, when I was going behind the booth, he was in character as Danny Husk, but I said, is it safe for me to come back here?
Jay: Is it safe back here?
Jay: And he said, "It wouldn't have been an hour ago."
Scott: It wouldn't have been ago for a young man like you, but you're perfectly safe with me.
Jay: All right.
Mike: Are you into older gay men?
Jay: I am not, but I still appreciate the attention.
Mike: Okay.
Mike: Would you let that kid in your hall?
Jay: You would say it's a positive experience, then?
Scott: Well, it wasn't.
Scott: Here's the thing.
Scott: Everything's positive, you know, in hindsight.
Scott: And, uh, yes, at the time, uh, when the gay troll was shaving my sack--
Mike: Anyways, so, um, a lot of other interesting things happened that weekend at, at Comic Con.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Um.
Jay: Well, a lot of people approached our booth asking us...Jake Lloyd was sort of, uh, kitty corner from our booth.
Mike: He was within eyeline.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: If it, if there wasn't a crowd, we could see him.
Jay: And a lot of people are coming up to our booth, and asking if he knew about the reviews.
Jay: And they kept saying, "Well, we'll go ask him and come back and report," and nobody ever came back.
Mike: They didn't make it back.
Jay: So, we took it, uh, upon ourselves to just go over there and ask him to sign a picture.
Mike: So we're going to talk to Jake Lloyd, and we're going to get him to sign a picture to, uh, Red Letter Media.
Jay: And make it out to Red Letter Media, and just see what his reaction was.
Mike: That was unprofessional.
Jay: I'm sorry.
Mike: And, and here we are in front of the, uh, celebrity autograph...
Mike: Oh, what's that?
Mike: This was a twenty dollar experiment.
Jay: It was a twenty dollar experiment.
Jay: And, uh, so we did that, and he didn't, I, I didn't see any reaction.
Mike: I was watching his face, and I said, I said, will, will you make it out to Red Letter Media?
Mike: And he was looking down and he kind of, like this, he goes, like he made like a, like a perplexed look.
Mike: I'm not that, that he's heard of Red Letter Media, but he's probably like, you know, Red Letter Media always sounds like red light district.
Jay: It sounds like a filthy porno company.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: So I think he was kind of analyzing it.
Jay: It wasn't a person's name.
Mike: It wasn't a person's name.
Jay: So it may have thrown him off.
Mike: And, and he was trying, like, I'm sure those guys have, like, a thing where they're, like, you know, sign it "I love Adolf Hitler," you know, like, they won't do certain things.
Jay: Sure.
Mike: So, I'm sure he kind of, like, wh-, sign it to what?
Mike: And that's kind of the look, and I said, well, it's our movie company, we're gonna hang it in our studio, and he goes--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --okay, whatever, and he signs it Red Letter Media.
Mike: Another thing we discovered about Canadians is that they, they don't use the word rubber band.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: They, they say elastics.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: Um, and, you're just like...
Jay: What?
Mike: What?
Mike: I mean, it fucking says rubber band on the package, like, hello!
Mike: They say--
Jay: Get with it...
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: ...Canada.
Mike: I mean, wh-, wh-, elastics?
Mike: They, like, do you have an elastic?
Jay: All, all I could think about was, like, condoms.
Mike: Right, right?
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: It kind of sounds like condoms.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: So, so they say elastic, not condom.
Mike: Not rubber bands.
Mike: Uh, wow.
Jay: Maybe they say elastic for rubber bands and for condoms.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: It's possible.
Mike: And that's why there's so many pregnancies in Canada.
Mike: There, there was, um, there was the guy that, that had a plastic voice distorter.
Mike: So, anyways, so you also interviewed other celebrities, too, don't forget.
Jay: I, I did interview Darth Vader, which was exciting because I, I am vaguely familiar with who he is.
Jay: Alright, so I'm here with, uh, what's your name?
Vader: Darth Vader.
Jay: Darth Vader?
Jay: I've heard of him.
Mike: He's a black guy, right?
Jay: Wh-
Vader: You look like a shitball, you fuck.
Jay: What was it like working with George Lucas?
Vader: He smells like coffee and B.O.
Jay: Uh, uh, what did you think of the Star Wars prequels?
Vader: They suck my burnt off nuts.
Jay: And, and then I interviewed, uh, uh, a guy who proclaimed to be Kermit the Frog.
Jay: I don't think it was actually Kermit the Frog.
Mike: And how did that go?
Jay: It was incredibly awkward.
Jay: What is your name?
Kermit: I am Kermit the Frog.
Jay: And wh-, what might people know you from?
Jay: I don't think it was the real Kermit the Frog.
Mike: Have you ever worked with Dustin Diamonds?
Kermit: Who the hell is Dustin Diamond?
Jay: I think it was an impostor.
Jay: What's green and smells like bacon?
Mike: How do you think Kermit the Frog feels?
Mike: I mean, do you think he feels like Scott Thompson always having someone's hand up his ass?
Mike: Also, Ray Park was there, who played Darth Maul.
Mike: Now, and I got the exclusive interview with Ray Park.
Jay: Oh, oh, Mike, he did.
Mike: Mike got the exclusive interview with Ray Park.
Mike: Let's take a look at that.
Mike: Hello, we're here with Ray Park, who played Darth Maul.
Mike: Ray, do you have anything to say to your adoring fans on the internet?
Mike: Ray Park did not want to talk on camera.
Mike: Um, he covered himself in Legos.
Jay: Did you ask him what it was like to play Darth Maul?
Mike: I did, and he didn't say anything.
Mike: I did ask Ray Park one question that has always been, you know, on my mind.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: I said, Ray Park, what was it like to write such an iconic pop song?
Mike: Are you afraid of a ghost?
Ghost Cosplayer 1: Am I afraid of a ghost?
Ghost Cosplayer 1: No.
Ghost Cosplayer 2: We ain't afraid of ghosts.
Ghost Cosplayer 1: We ain't afraid of no ghosts.
Mike: Okay, that's the proper response.
Jay: Hey, remember when Peter Mayhew was there?
Mike: Peter Mayhew...I was gonna sneeze.
Mike: Peter Mayhew loves the fans, and he loves coming to events like this.
Jay: Yeah.
Yeah: I would agree.
Mike: In fact, I talked to Peter Mayhew.
Mike: This was off-camera--
Jay: Oh.
Jay: Okay.
Mike: I said, Peter Mayhew, why do you do conventions?
Mike: And he says, he goes, oh, you know, I was, I was such an iconic character in Star Wars, and, and that has meant so much to people, and I was Chewbacca, you know, and I love meeting the fans, and I love hearing their stories about how 'Star Wars' has, has affected them and has changed their lives.
Mike: I said, Peter Mayhew, I, I understand at your next convention, will you not charge for autographs?
Mike: And, and he looked at me and he said, fuck you.
Mike: And then he started swearing at me, and his handler told me to leave.
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: I saw that, and then he started throwing up dollar bills, and said, I fucking love money.
Jay: I love money.
Jay: Give me more.
Jay: He kept chanting, "Give me more money!"
Mike: Yeah, um, it, and it got kind of weird, in a, in a satanic way, um, and he started, he started making weird growling sounds.
Jay: Like Chewbacca noises, or...?
Mike: Well, if Chewbacca were, uh, Lucifer.
Jay: Okay.
Mike: If Chewbacca mated with Lucifer, and had a, had a child.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: He did wear a fur costume in the 70's, in a low-budget science-fiction film that became popular.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And 65 years later, as he's on death's door, rubbing a felt-tip pen on a picture of himself, for money, is, is some sort of value.
Mike: Um...he is a fraud.
Mike: I also got interviewed by a local Toronto web vlogger, named SexyNerdGirl.
Mike: She came up to the booth, and I said, "Wow, hello, you know, welcome to--"
Jay: You're too attractive to be here.
Mike: --too attractive to be here.
SexyNerdGirl: Hey guys, I want to take a sec to thank everybody for all your support on my channel.
Mike: So we talked and, um, I'm sure I said something stupid, but we probably talked on her blog, um, vlog, and, um, we talked about her vlog, um, uh...
Jay: Her vee-log?
Mike: Her, is it, is it a vee-log?
Jay: It's a, I think you just say V.
Jay: So you could say you talked extensively about her V.
Mike: So that wraps up three days of Wizard World convention fun here in Toronto.
Mike: Um, so that about wraps up this episode.
Mike: Have you ever heard of the 70-minute Star Wars: Phantom Menace review?
Dustin: No.
Mike: And, uh, we'll see you all next week, when, uh, we're going to review...
Jay: Oh, no.
Jay: You're going to vomit.
Jay: Oh, no.
Jay: Oh, no.
Jay: Did you just vomit into your hands?
