Jun 30, 2011
The 48-Hour Film Project
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-jPiK0HWcXc
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/86317879875731456
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/205929542783379
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/158926467509257
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/156390974433444
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-the-48-hour-film-project

Half in the bag.
Ugh.
It's nice having a week off from the VCR repair game, wasn't it?
I haven't touched this VCR in a month.
What'd you do in your week off?
Well, I saw a couple of films at the theater.
I saw, um, the Green Lantern.
Oh.
And Mr. Popper's Penguins.
What did you, what did you think of them?
Oh, I didn't actually see them.
Oh.
I, I bought a ticket for the Green Lantern, but I didn't watch it.
Okay.
Um, cuz I have, like, a fetish.
It's like a sadomasochistic fetish being publicly humiliated.
Okay.
It really, it, it fucking turns me on.
Like, so I go, one for the Green Lantern, and, and the girl behind the counter goes like that, and I go, snicker at me...! And, and then I come back after it's over and I say, one for Mr. Popper's Penguins.
And then everybody was laughing at me.
Yeah.
You know, they say, who would see this movie?
I said, I would like to, and then they just started laughing in my face.
Okay.
Little did they know I had a raging hard-on.
Hmm.
So.
Well, hey everybody.
Welcome to another episode of Half in the Bag.
I, I didn't see you there.
Oh.
I didn't know we were rolling.
Yeah, we've been rolling.
Can you cut that out?
Uh, yeah.
I'll cut it out.
The whole conversation?
I'll cut that whole part out.
Okay.
Hello, and welcome to Half in the Bag.
I'm Mike.
And I'm Jay.
And this is going to be a special episode because, uh, we took a week off from working on the VCR, and we participated in Milwaukee's 48-Hour Film Project.
And if you don't know what the 48-Hour Film Project is, it's pretty self-explanatory.
It's a contest where you and a team of people trying to make a short film within 48 hours, and whoever makes the best film, wins, essentially.
So you have to conceive the film, shoot it, edit it entirely, so it is quite the challenge.
Yeah.
Yeah, the first year we drew, our genre was horror.
We made Das Foot, which was a comedy.
The second year, we drew Western or musical, so we decided to make The Western Ore (O-R-E) Musical.
The fucking musical about rock.
Yes, which was also a comedy.
It was very...very clever, that one.
Mm-hmm.
This year, not so clever.
Um...
This year, we went the exact opposite.
Yeah...
And just made the stupidest, weirdest, most vulgar movie possible.
There's a kickoff event that you go to and draw your genre.
Literally draw, draw your genre out of a hat.
And then you are given elements that have to be in the movie, which is a character, a line of dialogue, and a prop.
So this year, the, the categories were, the character name was Simon Taggert, or I think it was Susie or Sally Taggert.
A female equivalent.
They're, uh, usually they do that where there's a male or female.
And the occupation of this character was a chess player.
The prop was a pillow, and the line of dialogue was "Where did you get it?"
And we all broke and, and left to brainstorm at a different location.
And, uh, that's kind of where things got interesting.
The nice thing about drawing sci-fi this year is that we had a lot of props all ready.
Yeah.
We, had an interesting team.
Um, we had a lot of comedy people on our team.
We had, let's see, we had our friend Jack, who you might have seen from numerous short films that we did.
He's also known for making the high-five videos on funnyordie.com.
We had our friend Laura, uh, who was in Feeding Frenzy, played the Russian lady in Feeding Frenzy, and, uh, also looks very similar to a certain police officer who was here.
I noticed that, yeah.
Yeah, she looks a lot like that Officer Cooper.
They look a lot alike.
That was weird.
Yeah.
And we had our friend, Dan, who, um, who you may have seen in the Dudebros.
If you've been unfortunate enough to watch the Dudebros...
And, of course, Jocelyn, our friend Jocelyn, who is also an actress.
She's a kind of a more serious, dramatic actress, but she took part in the film.
Although she wasn't there for the brainstorming, she was--
No.
--just there to act.
We brainstormed well into...
Well into the evening.
 Past midnight.
Till like, 1:00 in the morning or so.
Yeah.
So...
And so just one idea after the other...when you have that many people involved, there's lots of opinions, and so there was a lot of bickering, probably more from me than anybody else.
Yeah, no one got angry, though.
No one got angry, but it was just sort of finding an idea that everyone was happy with.
We finally decided to go with the very last idea we came up with at the very end of the night.
After hours of brainstorming, you're like, let's just do this.
So when the, when the idea is done, that's when things become a hectic nightmare.
If I were to give advice to someone who wants to do this, one, obviously, is the technical stuff.
I mean, it doesn't have to look, like, you know, a cinematic work of art.
Ours doesn't.
The basics are, make sure things are well-exposed, and that you have microphones.
You have a good sound source that's clean, whether it's a shotgun mic or you put wireless microphones on your actors.
We've seen a lot of films where people would shoot in a bar and plop the camera down twelve feet away from the actors, where there's, like, the bar refrigerators humming, and the camera mic is the onward mic twenty feet away, and when you watch on the big screen, it's like...
Yeah.
When the day is young, and you're starting off, it's fun, and then, when you realize it's 8:00 or 9:00 at night, and that you have 90% of the film to shoot still...
Yeah.
...and you go, oh, shit.
Yeah.
And everyone starts getting tired, and spirits dip, and people get cranky...at about 8 o'clock at night, you know, Jay said, I'm done filming.
Uh, would you say, fuck you, fuck everyone?
He kind of cursed us, and called us jackasses, and said he's never doing this again.
But, basically, he said he was going to go edit, start the editing process, and then I grabbed the helm and take over shooting.
Which I believe was a good move.
It worked perfectly because there was a lot of stuff still to get, but we shot for a couple more hours, and you got a lot of editing done.
Yeah.
So it was good to kind of split off like that.
Jay was editing the movie.
Jack and Jessi were making, um, music, and I was shooting the special effect.
And then later on, Jack had his laptop, and was doing After Effects, blurring out parts of the video.
Jay was cutting the picture, and then I was doing the compositing for the, the visual effect.
Three computers going at once...
Yeah.
...to finish this thing.
We came right down to the wire.
We ended up turning the movie in two minutes from the deadline.
Mm-hmm.
So, which is, uh, a running thing every year.
It seems like we're right down to the line.
Weird how that happens.
I enjoyed doing the 48-hour film festival.
It's, it's, it's fun.
It's challenging.
I don't know...this might be my last year for it.
It was more stressful this year than it has been in the past, and I think part of that is just that we get way too ambitious with it.
When you have a bunch of creative people, which we did this year, it becomes more and more collaborative...
Yeah.
...and kind of goes out of control.
I mean there were points where there, the morale was kind of low and things kind of dragged, but then it would pop back up when we'd shoot something really funny.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think everyone had a good time on the shoot.
Well, maybe we should let the, the people...
So...
...judge for themselves what they think of the movie.
That's right, Jay.
This is going to be the internet premiere of our new 48-hour film contest film, which is called The Great Space Jam.
Uh...roll it, Johnny!
So that's our 48-hour film.
Yep, it's, uh...wow, it was terrifying.
It's, it turned out to be more of a horror film than I think we originally planned.
Yeah.
And that robot was, just...
Yes, I wouldn't want to get raped by that robot.
Oh, dang.
It must be my birthday, cuz I found some white boys.
Oh!
I can ejaculate at 1,000 words per minute.
You're not even the best I've had.
