Apr 22, 2011
Scream 4 and No Brand Con
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mLUQpOn9Dw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRGDe8h57Ho&t=26m14s
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/61525400605573120
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-scream-4-and-no-brand-con

["Half in the bag!"]
["I don't even know who I am anymore."]
Jay: My god, what are you doing?
Mike: Oh.
Jay: You know there's easier ways to do that?
Mike: What, bottle opener?
Jay: Don't you think Plinkett's gonna notice that?
Mike: What, a knife in his wall?
Mike: No, look at all the stuff we've done around his house.
Mike: I mean the other day we lost his kitchen, and he didn't even notice that.
Jay: Why do you even have that knife, though?
Jay: I mean who do you think you are, Courtney Cox's plastic surgeon?
["Modern audiences have become savvy to the rules of the originals."]
["I mean, there are still rules, but the rules have changed."]
["And the kills have gotta be, like, way more extreme."]
Jay: Courtney Cox is, of course, one of the stars of Scream 4, which takes place ten years after the original Scream trilogy.
Jay: And it's about Neve Campbell returning to her hometown, where the original Scream massacres took place, uh, to promote a book that she wrote about survival, uh, and while she's there--
Mike: Wow, this is a really long plot.
Mike: Isn't it about stabbing people?
Mike: For fuck's sake, just get to the review.
["This week marks the anniversary of the infamous Woodsboro murders."]
["Local celebrity victim, Sidney Prescott, chose to return to her hometown."]
Jay: So this was kind of an experiment, because we went and saw this movie, and Mike has never seen any of the original three Scream movies.
Mike: I have not.
Jay: So with that in mind, what did you, what did you think of this movie?
Mike: Well, I found the movie entertaining enough.
Mike: I enjoyed watching it.
Mike: Uh, I didn't get angry or irritated, um, but, I--
Jay: That's always a good sign, I guess, for you.
Mike: I, you know there, was certain, like, when, when the teen characters started showing up and, you know, the one guy's got these, he's got like, uh, uh, a webcam thing, and they're in...
Mike: But, this film was so meta, um, that I didn't quite know what I was supposed to be doing during the movie.
Mike: I didn't quite know where, where the director wanted me--in what frame of mind, you know what I mean?
Mike: Like, cuz I haven't seen the other films.
Mike: So, I was like, are all of them like this?
Mike: Are all of them funny?
Mike: Are these comedies?
Mike: Are these, am I actually supposed to be really scared, or, you know...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Cuz David Arquette is totally hamming it up, and they're, Courtney Cox, they're like phoning in their performances.
Mike: It's almost like, wink wink...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...all the time.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Neve Campbell, actually, you know, does a good job, and then everything else comes off sort of comical or farcical, basically, I guess.
Jay: Yeah, the, well, I, I am a big fan of the original Scream.
Jay: I think it's a really well-done movie.
Jay: The sequels are sort of, just like, cheap cash-ins.
Jay: But the original one is a solid movie, and the tone of it is, uh, uh, satirical, but at the same time it treats the horror elements very seriously.
Jay: It's a good balance between kind of pointing out these cliches from past slasher movies, while still making an actual slasher movie that's genuinely kind of intense and well done.
Jay: Uh, and I enjoyed Scream 4, a lot, in kind of a guilty pleasure way, because it's...so stupid.
Jay: And as the movie progresses, it gets stupider and more schlocky.
Jay: But the whole time I was questioning, "Does the movie know how silly it's being?"
Jay: Because it's constantly referencing the idea that sequels and reboots are sort of, like, stupid.
Jay: Uh, but at the same time it's doing that, the longer it goes on, it, it kind of devolves into schlock, and I was like, oh, man.
Jay: The movies has just completely lost it.
Jay: But then a character at some point says, uh, uh, "This is getting silly," in reference to the movie.
Jay: I was like, oh, no, is Wes Craven intentionally ruining this series of movies?
["Time for your last question."]
["Name the remake of the groundbreaking--"]
["Halloween."]
["Texas Chainsaw."]
["Dawn of the Dead."]
["The Hills Have Eyes."]
["The Amityville Horror."]
["Black Christmas."]
["House of Wax."]
["Prom Night."]
["My Bloody Valentine."]
Jay: The whole time, I was thinking of The Simpsons, the bit on The Simpsons where they they say, "Are you being ironic? I don't even know anymore."
Mike: Well, that's one of the things they didn't really get because I, I didn't know if it's supposed to be a reboot or a sequel, or them just kind of referencing the fact that they, after ten years, just decided to make another Scream movie because the ghostface guy and the Scream name are recognizable to people.
Jay: I'm sure that was the, the mindset of the studio.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: They probably didn't care too much about the actual content.
Jay: They just wanted to make another Scream.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: And, and they probably wouldn't have done it without those three actors.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: They're sort of the main, important ones, I guess.
Jay: Yeah, they're the, the stars of the original movies.
Mike: Yeah.
["Dewey, what is going on?"]
["This is not public information."]
["It's all over the internet."]
["It is?"]
Mike: Well, I mean, basically, it was like, Neve Campbell was the character from the first movie, who had the same kind of Scream encounters with the killer, and, uh, wrote a book, and came back to her hometown.
Mike: It's almost like they, they don't need the second and the third film's events.
Jay: It sort of ignores those then, because they're just sort of, like, cheap cash-in sequels.
Mike: In, in that way, it's very similar to Jaws 4: The Revenge.
Jay: I've never seen Jaws 4.
Jay: All I know is that the end of that movie, don't they stab the shark with a boat, and it explodes?
["Smile, you son of a bitch!"]
Mike: But it's also almost the exact same thing as Halloween 4: The Return of Michael Myers.
Jay: Oh, yeah.
Mike: The first Halloween, the events.
Mike: The second one, ehhhh.
Mike: The third one, of course, has nothing to do with Michael Myers.
Mike: And the fourth one's, like, resurrection of the Michael Myers storyline.
Mike: Like, he's come back to Haddonfield after twenty years.
Mike: And those two link, the first and the fourth.
Jay: Uh, Nightmare on Elm Street, of course, Wes Craven's brainchild, did this with New Nightmare.
Mike: Although, New Nightmare was in the fourth film in the series, that was also, yes, sort of a, uh, self-referential thing.
Mike: If you haven't seen New Nightmare, you should check it out.
Jay: New Nightmare is a genuinely good movie.
Mike: Yeah, I actually like that movie.
Mike: It's very dark.
Mike: It's very well done.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And Robert Englund is in it, who plays himself, and same with, um, Freddy...
Jay: And Wes Craven's in the movie, too.
Mike: Wes Craven is also in the movie, so it's, it's very...would that be meta?
Jay: That would be meta, yes.
["To be the new version, the killer should be filming the murders."]
["Gale, Gale, behind you!"]
Mike: That's another thing, too.
Mike: I guess these movies are more or less whodunits.
Mike: There's not a specific Scream killer, um, who comes back to life at the end.
Jay: Right.
Mike: And, so, we won't give away the, who the mystery is at the end, of course.
Mike: Um, but, uh, that, that element is interesting to me, uh, in a different kind of way.
Jay: Yeah, it kind of falls prey to the same thing that the second and third one did, though, in that there's no real way to figure it out.
Jay: It's not like there are clues throughout the movie.
Jay: It could, it could, there's so many, like, red herrings that it could be anybody.
Mike: But I think, like you said, the big thing with this movie is neither of us knew if we loved it or hated it, based, on, on, whether or not it was all a joke.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: I'm not sure--
Jay: There, there are moments in the movie where it felt like Wes Craven was just intentionally making complete schlock, and he knew it, and he was having fun with it.
Mike: Well, well, there, there's a lot of scenes in this movie where the kills are completely unimaginative.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And there's, there's one scene in particular where, um, they're, the publicist character is in the parking garage.
Mike: But, but, really, kind of a throwaway character, not important to the plot at all.
Jay: Right.
Mike: Because the movie's not about Neve Campbell's book.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: It has nothing to do with her publicist, the whole movie.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: But we spend eighteen minutes of the movie in the parking garage with the publicist...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...after all this time setting it up, in, in and out of the car, the car alarm going off, back and forth, and blah blah blah...she's gonna get to the, then just, and it's like, and also, after you see the film, and you find out who the killer is, this person killing the publicist had nothing to do with the plan at all.
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: In fact, it could have used the publicist.
Mike: Um, the publicist would have gladly helped that person.
Jay: Oh, yeah, that would have been great, actually.
Mike: Uh, uh, do what this, this person wanted to do.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Although, you are quite a fan of the publicist in real life.
Jay: The publicist is played by Alison Brie, who is on probably the best comedy series on network television right now, Community.
Jay: A really great show.
Jay: Really sharp, funny show.
Jay: And, and she's, uh, she's good.
Jay: She's probably only one of the new cast members in this movie that wasn't in the original movies that sort of stands out.
Mike: She stood out.
Jay: She's, yeah, she's good in it.
Mike: I don't know who she was, but I was like, she's, she's good.
Mike: It was a little hammy of a performance, but I think that was the point.
Jay: It, well, that's the other thing, is like, that performance is so hammy and over-the-top.
Mike: It's cartoony.
Jay: It's cartoony, but then you have other characters, like the Neve Campbell character, that's played completely straight.
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: Um...
Mike: Neve Campbell's cousin is played straight.
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: Uh, who apparently is the cousin of Julia Roberts.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: Um, and you, you, you claimed nepotism there.
Jay: I, I, I don't think this actress would be getting roles if it wasn't for the fact that she's related to Julia Roberts, because she's awful.
Mike: She would be getting roles, but it would be bringing them to the table as a waitress.
Jay: Well, let's, let's talk about Wes Craven, briefly here.
Jay: Uh, I, I've seen most of Wes Craven's movies and, and, I'm convinced that there's actually two Wes Cravens.
Jay: Because, uh, really, 90% of Wes Craven's movies are awful, but he's still considered, like, this master of horror because the movies that he's made that are really good are really, really good.
Jay: And this movie, in particular, felt like those two Wes Cravens sort of merged into one, and had a baby that, and it's a little baby Wes Craven made a movie that is either amazingly brilliant in, in how aware of how stupid it is, or it's, it's latter-day Wes Craven that just made horrible schlock and he didn't know how awful it was.
Mike: Yeah, it's, it's questionable at the end.
Mike: I mean, there's a couple little moments where, you know, it's obviously supposed to be funny but, but, that's hard to say.
Jay: Well, if that's the case, and you're someone that likes the Scream series, uh, and likes the tone of it, you may be pissed off at this movie, because it, because it's intentionally mocking everything.
Mike: I think...
Jay: It's sort of like a spit in the face to someone that, if you take these movies seriously, which I don't know why you would want to anyway...
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: But...
Mike: Well, I think it's, I think it's trying to reach the next plateau of self-referentialism.
Mike: But it's taking itself seriously, and you're like, should I laugh, or is this real?
Mike: Are they asking us to kind of take this seriously or not, and, and they could have easily gone into the whacky direction.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Just, just over the line, but they're right on the line.
Mike: They're riding the line.
Mike: If it was, if it wasn't Scream, if it was just, now, The Woodsboro Killer movie, like in it, and those Scream movies didn't exist at all...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...and I just watched this, I would probably go, this is stupid.
Mike: But given the history of how the first one was kind of a take on horror movie cliches in its own movie, if that history didn't exist, then I would say this movie is kind of stupid.
Jay: Hmm.
Jay: So is Wes Craven an, an evil genius that's intentionally destroying a beloved horror franchise, or is he not aware of what this movie was?
Mike: That's the big question because, yeah, there, there's, there's some pretty brutal blood, gore...
Jay: It was, it was gorier than the other movies.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: It was definitely gorier, um, which maybe goes along, which is kind of where horror films have gone since the original.
Mike: Yeah, yeah.
Jay: But I, that's something, I, I, I think, cuz the original movie sort of references slasher films, which had just sort of run their course--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --when the original movie came out.
Jay: So it was sort of a reflection of that.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: It's very much a movie of its time, and so I was kind of expecting this one to deal more with kind of where horror has gone since that.
Jay: Uh, there's been like the torture porn movies.
Jay: The, uh, the Asian remake movies.
Jay: Like, I thought the movie was gonna be more of a reflection of that.
Mike: Yeah, they, they...
Jay: The found-footage films, there's a little bit of that in there, but not much.
Mike: I don't think it would have worked if they tried to squeeze in different genres as gags, unless you're going for, like, a straight-up comedy movie like, you know, one of those disaster movie, or--
Jay: Like a, um, yeah, ust a straight up bad spoof movie.
Mike: --one of those where it's, like, a bad spoof movie.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Where they, where it's like, and that would be going too far.
Mike: It has to stick with the traditional--
Jay: But that just makes the whole thing feel really dated, in a lot of ways.
Mike: Well, I...
Jay: Despite all the, the mentions of like Facebook and Twitter and, and everyone on their cell phones, um, the actual plot of the movie, it felt very much like a mid-90's generic slasher movie.
Mike: Yeah, I think that was the point, um, in a way, like, because you and I are, are old men, and ten years is like nothing to us.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: But if you were 15 or so -- 14, 15, 16 -- when Scream came out 10 years later...
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...it's more of a nostalgic thing--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: --and I think that's what they were going for.
Jay: I grew up on the Scream movies.
Mike: In, in fact the, um, one of the publicist girl, um...
Jay: Oh, yeah.
Mike: ...says, you were my 90's...
Jay: That's right.
Mike: ...to Courtney Cox at one point, showing how young that girl was.
Mike: So I think that was kind of the point, was, you know, they tried to make a Scream movie all dark and serious, where Ghostface Guy is torturing people, as trying to, you know, modernize that movie series.
Mike: It wouldn't have worked, but--
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: ...it was actually, it was 90's nostalgia and, and, for us that's sort of mind-blowing at this point.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: Because we're still stuck in 80's nostalgia mode.
Jay: Mm-hmm.
["These aren't just random killings."]
Mike: Well, for this movie, I would say if you're a fan of the Scream series, then you probably should go see it.
Mike: But for myself, as someone who's never seen any of the Scream films, I, I enjoyed it.
Mike: I didn't know if I was in on a joke, or if I was out of the joke.
Jay: Yeah, I would say as a movie, I was incredibly entertained the whole way through, uh, especially kind of half way through to the end, I was just, like, constantly giggling at the schlock.
Jay: It just gets so ridiculous.
Mike: Yeah, the ending was pretty good.
Jay: It's so silly.
Jay: The ending got really funny, and I don't know if it was intentionally funny or not.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: So, speaking of things that are horribly confusing to us, we just got back from the No Brand Con in Eau Claire, Wisconsin, which is an anime cosplay gaming convention.
Jay: Um, all things we know absolutely nothing about.
Jay: But, they, uh, were kind enough to invite us up there as guests, and do a panel and screen some things, and it was a, it was a good weekend.
Jay: We had a good time.
Mike: Yeah, and in true Half in the Bag fashion, we brought along our video camera and our microphone, and rolled some footage.
Mike: So, let's take a look at it now.
Mike: Hit it, Johnny!
Mike: Whoa!
Mike: It's a beautiful day, and a great day for No Brand Con 2011, here at the Plaza Hotel in Eau Claire, Wisconsin!
Mike: Check out some anime, pick up some manga--
Mike: Whoa!
Mike: Hey, everybody!
Mike: We're here at No Brand Con 2011 in Eau Claire, Wisconsin!
Mike: Gonna check out some anime.
Mike: Gonna check out some manga.
Mike: And most importantly, gonna eat some Pocky!
Mike: Let's check it out!
Mike: Whoa!
Mike: Check out all the dealers at No Brand Con this year!
Mike: You can pick up whatever kind of manga, anime, you w--
Mike: Whoa!
Mike: Check it out!
Mike: A classic Atari arcade game, Return of the Jedi, circa 19--
Mike: Whoa!
Mike: You can get your dance on in No Brand Con this year--
Mike: Whoa!
Mike: So, what, what the hell happened there?
Mike: That was some weird footage.
["If you wanna get with me, better make it fast"]
["So don't be wasting my precious time"]
Jay: We're at, uh, uh, karaoke at the site where people dressed as cartoon characters sing ironic songs, unironically.
Jay: Yeah, there are so many levels of irony and sarcasm, that I don't know what's genuine and what's sarcastic anymore.
Jay: It's like a Scream movie.
Mike: What is that?
Trollface Cosplayer: A Troll Face.
Mike: What?
Mike: Shockwave?
Mike: Currently, right now, they're playing the 70-minute Phantom Menace Review from Red Letter Media on the screen over there.
Mike: Oh, it's getting near the end.
Mike: We're about to go on the stage and do a Q&A, which we will tape.
Mike: The cameraman is a, is a hack.
Mike: You, you chose the wrong way to walk down this hallway.
Mike: Well, um, okay, you're having a room party.
Mike: Oh, you don't talk?
Mike: So I, I probably shouldn't do this now.
Mike: Um, now the cream puffs are what interest me the most.
Mike: Go on your way, ninja!
Mike: You have a mission!
Mike: Go, your mission!
Mike: Get people to your party, in the room!
Mike: Go!
Mike: Cream puffs!
Mike: So, in addition to Red Letter Media, there's a couple other special guests there, as well.
Mike: Coleen Clinkenbeard and Monica Rial, who do voiceover work for anime.
Mike: I have not heard of them, uh, cuz I don't know what anime is.
Jay: I don't know anything about anime.
Mike: Is anime manga?
Jay: Mmm, I think anime can be manga, but manga can never be anime.
Jay: Shots!
Mike: Anyway, so there were really nice ladies.
Mike: Um, very energetic, and that seemed to be a theme that evening.
Jay: We, we, we noticed that all the other guests there were, uh, very full of energy and excitements, which is not us, uh, which you probably know if you watched Half in the Bag.
Jay: We're very, sort of, dry, boring assholes.
Mike: Right.
Jay: So, uh, we had a screening of one of the Plinkett reviews, but right before that screening in that room was a performance by a fellow named Brentalfloss.
["That's pretty cool that you came that far to see me."]
Mike: That's right.
Mike: Brentalfloss was also there.
Mike: He's a guy on the internet and he does lyrics to video game music.
["Shapes made of four colored blocks"]
["Like a T or a box"]
["Come down like falling bricks"]
Mike: Um, the thing he does at conventions is, he does a performance, a live show, umm with music and keyboards and singing and stuff like that and, um, and our screening and our Q&A had to follow his show.
Mike: So we had a chance to talk with Brent for a minute before our screening, and, uh, take a look at that.
Brent: I feel like, like I wish I had said, stick around with Red Letter Media, because, and the thing is, I kind of got thrown by the whole you-have-five-minutes-left, oh crap, you know, so...
Mike: How do you feel about the phrase, tough act to follow?
["I'm making my review, so just shut your fucking mou--"]
["So anyways, I realized that Senator Palpatine--"]
Mike: I think our screening went well.
Jay: It did.
Jay: It seemed to go over well.
Jay: Almost everyone that was in there appeared to have seen the Plinkett reviews before, and, uh, had a lot of questions.
Jay: It was one question after the other.
Audience member: So, are you looking forward to Star Wars in 3D?
Mike: No.
Mike: Um, I am a little more comfortable when I'm intoxicated, uh, in front of the crowds.
Mike: I don't like speaking in front of crowds.
Mike: It makes me nervous.
Jay: Yeah, me too.
Mike: Um, that's why they make this.
Mike: Cheers!
Mike: We weren't that drunk for the Q&A.
Mike: We just had a couple.
Mike: Here we are on the elevator in the hotel, and we're going to interview some--
Mike: Oh.
Mike: wait, wait.
Mike: Cut.
Mike: I'm gonna throw up.
Jay: What did you, what'd you--
Mike: And we met some other people, too.
Mike: Matt and Chris were also there from brawlinthefamily[.]com.
Mike:It is a webcomic, um, which is kind of loosely based on existing Nintendo characters.
Mike: They were nice guys.
Mike: They were our vendor buddies.
Jay: They were our vendor neighbors.
Jay: They were right next to us.
Mike: Yeah, and it was their first convention, um, that they've ever done, and their first Q&A panel.
Mike: And Matthew was a little nervous, I think, about his Q&A, but, um, he did great.
Mike: They both did great, and, um, we sat in on their, their panel.
Mike: And afterwards we had a chance to, to interview both of them in a very quick, kind of cool, intimate setting, um, at the convention.
Jay: It, uh, yeah, it made it feel very personable.
Mike: Yeah.
Mike: Hey, we're here at No Brand Con, and I'm with a couple of fellow guests.
Mike: Uh, your names?
Matt: Uh, I'm Matthew Toronto.
Chris: And I'm Chris Stewart.
Mike: And, what do you guys, what do you guys do, what, what do the, what do the crowds here know you for, mainly?
Matt: Well, uh, I write and draw the comic Brawl in the Family.
Matt: It's a webcomic about Nintendo characters, and Chris here helps me out with the, the site design, and, uh, some maintenance, and, you know, he gives me a little bit of feedback on the comics, so he, you know, we're kind of a team with that.
Mike: Are you, are you an artist as well?
Chris: Uh, yeah.
Chris: Um, he's really, does all the art for the comic, but, um, I've, I've contributed a few, uh, select pieces.
Matt: Yeah.
Matt: This is true.
Matt: It's true.
Mike: Oh, yes, um...okay.
Mike: Well, thanks for your time.
Matt: All right, well, thanks a lot.
Matt: I, I definitely appreciated, uh, doing the interview with you.
Matt: It's been a lot of fun.
Matt: It's been great meeting you, and we're big fans of your work at, uh, Red Letter Media.
Chris: Oh, yeah.
Mike: Same here.
Mike: And everybody check out brawlinthefamily[.]com.
Matt: All right.
Mike: Ow!
Mike: So, the No Brand Con, I mean it's primarily, like, an anime thing, but there was so much other cool stuff going on there.
Jay: I've never seen you so excited before.
Mike: I was so freaking excited there that we just had to take a ton of photos.
Mike: So, yeah, wow.
Mike: Tabletop gaming, video games, dance club, you know, bad movies.
Mike: I mean, this convention really has it all.
Jay: Yeah, it was great.
Jay: They were all, uh, everyone there was really friendly, and, uh, we had a really great time.
Mike: Yeah, so if you're into anime, manga, cosplay, dressing up, and, uh, that sort of scene, uh, we would say you should go to the next No Brand Con.
Jay: Absolutely.
Mike: Um, if you're, if you can get to Wiscon--
