Mar 15, 2011
Battle Los Angeles and Galaxy Invader
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JWqrf5sV-_4
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/47662361548566528
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/196320750400243
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-battle-los-angeles-and-galaxy-invader

["Half in the bag!"]
["Get this crap off my desk!"]
Mike: Mr. Plinkett?
Mike: Hello? 
Jay: We're here to keep working on your VCR.
Mike: Some more.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Longer, still.
Jay: Where is he?
Mike: I dunno.
Jay: Oh, hey, look.
Jay: There's a note.
Mike: Oh, what does it say? 
Jay: "Taking a nap."
Jay: "Leave me the fuck alone."
Mike: Oh, that was polite of him.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: He let us know. 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: He's taking a nap, huh?
Mike: You want to rob him?
Jay: We're already robbing him.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: I mean, physically, what are we gonna do, take his fucking curio? 
Mike: Well, why don't we make use of these chairs?
Jay: Yeah, I could use a seat, I'm a little tired from when we walked in the door two seconds ago.
Mike: Shit, that's about as much work as I'm doing today.
Mike: Oh, hi.
Mike: Welcome to Half in the Bag.
Mike: I'm your host, Mike Stoklasa, and with me is--
Jay: I'm Jay Bowman.
Mike: And we watched a movie this week.
Mike: It was called...The Battle for Los Angeles?
Mike: The battle of Los Angeles?
Jay: Battlefield Los Angeles? 
Mike: The words battle and Los Angeles were in the title.
Mike: So, Battle for Los Angeles starred Aaron Eckhart, who the entire film I thought was Richard Dean Anderson, the whole time.
Jay: He was the, he was in the Batman movie.
Mike: He was in Batman Returns, and he played the Joker.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: So, Aaron Eckhart plays a staff sergeant in the Marines, who is getting old, and is about to retire, but, before he does, he's called up for one last mission, which is to save the world.
Jay: If I were to explain the plot, it would just be marines shoot at aliens for two hours.
Jay: This is the kind of movie that I hate the most, which is one that is completely forgettable on every level.
Jay: Bad movies have things that you remember about them.
Jay: They stick with you.
Jay: Good movies, of course, stick with you.
Jay: This is one of those movies that goes nowhere, has nothing to say, does nothing, and is completely forgettable.
Mike: I have a little bit of a different opinion on this.
Mike: From a perspective of someone that likes sci-fi movies, I actually enjoyed this.
Mike: Um, it may sound strange--
Jay: It does sound strange.
Mike: I think I'm in this mindset where the bar is so low now, which has been set by the likes of Roland Emmerich and Michael Bay, where I'm just expecting to be irritated the whole movie, and all the horrible cliches are thrown on screen.
Mike: When I discovered they, they were going to rescue civilians, the first thing I thought was, "They're going to find a love interest, there's going to be some kids, there's going to be the hip teenager who has his laptop, um, who complains about not being able to get on the internet."
Mike: I can't log into Facebook!
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: This sucks!
Mike: You know, it's like, would a, would a kid really complain about not being able to check their Facebook page--
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: --when the whole city is burning around them?
Mike: Probably not real life, but movies stick that shit in there, then it becomes a fucking irrit-- 
Jay: --to appeal to the lowest common denominator, basically.
Mike: Yes, and--
Jay: That, that explains Michael Bay's whole career. 
Mike: Right.
Mike: And, and I think going into this movie, I was completely expecting all of that shit. 
Jay: Okay.
Mike: And it's there, but it's, it's mild enough to where it doesn't become offensive to the intellect.
Jay: I agree with you that it for the most part of avoids cliches, and avoids pandering.
Jay: I appreciate the fact that it's told from their sort of perspective.
Jay: You don't know any more than the characters that you're following know.
Jay: My problem with it is that that's all it does.
Mike: You, you like the zombie films.
Jay: I do like the zombie films.
Mike: This reminded me of the zombie films.
Mike: Zombie films are always, "We need to get from point A to point B without getting eaten."
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: That's what this was, essentially.
Mike: Zombie movies are "What do we do?"
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And this was, this was that from, uh, a marine perspective. 
Jay: I, I do like zombie movies, I like survival movies a lot.
Mike: I kind of saw this as a survival.
Jay: Yeah, I would agree, but I think the problem was it was hard for me to relate to anything that was going on because it was told from the point of view of the military.
Jay: If it was told maybe from the point of view of normal people--
Mike: Yeah. 
Jay: --you would have more of a connection with it.
Mike: Which was Cloverfield. 
Jay: Which is Cloverfield, and I liked Cloverfield.
Mike: And, and this movie, I think all the civilians either get wiped out so the military sort of reduced to the ability of normal people.
Jay: The only people that could handle the situation, and--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: Sure.
Mike: And, and, I, and that, I think that's what I liked about it.
Mike: It, it has some mild characterization.
Mike: Very mild.
Jay: Very mild.
Mike: Mild enough, though, to where it was, it was acceptable for me.
Mike: Every one of these movies, as we discussed before we watched it, has a recently divorced father, who works for the government, or NASA or something, who's taken so much, so much interest in his job, he's neglected his family so his wife divorces him. She has the kids.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: He gets the kids for that weekend when the disaster happens, and he learns to become a family man again.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: You have John Cusack in 2012, Tom Cruise in War of the Worlds, Jeff Goldblum in Independence Day, Dennis Quaid in The Day the Planet Froze, whatever the fuck that was.
Jay: The Day the Earth Stood Still After Tomorrow.
Mike: The Day the Earth Stood Still After Tomorrow.
Mike: I like it when movies have the nerve to not do that. 
Jay: Sure. 
Mike: Because they do it far too often, now.
Mike: So this was a movie, it wasn't, it wasn't that complex, as far as plot goes. 
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: But it didn't feel the need to pander. 
Jay: I appreciate that, too, but I also think that it needed to have something more going on to keep your interests.
Mike: It's basically once the premise is set up, it's just them wandering around, occasionally running into aliens and shooting at them.
Mike: It gets, it gets old after a while.
Mike: I think you're, you're wanting too much from it, and I'm happy that it, it didn't have--
Jay: That it wasn't too stupid. 
Mike: That it wasn't too stupid.
JaY: So, moving on to a different type of sci-fi alien invasion movie, we recently discovered a masterpiece called Galaxy Invader from 1985. 
Mike: Galaxy Invader, the greatest movie you'll ever see. 
Mike: It's a masterpiece of awkwardness.
Mike: Our lead character's name is Joe.
Mike: This man is the most horrible man ever.
Jay: He's a vile person, and an amazing actor.
Mike: He's a drunk, and he often threatens his family with a firearm.
Mike: So on an average, typical morning, he attempts to murder his own daughter with a shotgun.
Mike: He chases her out into the woods, and he discovers a spaceman in the woods.
Mike: It's the worst acting, the ugliest fucking people you'll ever see in your whole life.
Jay: They look like people that would be working in a southern grocery store--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --not acting in a feature film.
Jay: This is one of those movies that is so bad that it's good, and deserves to be in the same sort of league as, like, Planet Nine from Outer Space, or Troll 2.
Jay: Just really charmingly bad.
Jay: Really funny.
Jay: Really entertaining.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: You'll not be bored watching Galaxy Invader.
Mike: No, I, I mean the movie looks like crap.
Jay: Well, there's some bad movies that they're bad and they're funny, uh, when you start watching them, and you just get bored with it after a while.
Mike: Galaxy Invaders is one of those movies that keeps coming up with new ways to surprise you at how terrible it can be.
Mike: Yeah, it has it all.
Jay: Yeah, um, except for everything.
Mike: Our friend Rich Evans was recently in town, and we made him watch Galaxy Invader, and recorded it for your viewing pleasure.
Mike: Let's, uh, let's watch some of that now.
Rich: What the hell was that?
Mike: I've completely forgotten about these movies. 
Jay: Already?
Plinkett: Oh, hold on.
Plinkett: I'm coming.
Amy: Oh, um, are you Mr. Plinkett?
Plinkett: Yeah.
Amy: I'm Amy.
Amy: I'm going to be doing the massage that you scheduled for this afternoon.
Plinkett: That's right.
Plinkett: Doctor says I got knots all up and down my stupid back.
Amy: Okay, um, well, I know you said you had a professional massage table here but I don't see one, and if you don't have it anymore we can do this back at the office.
Plinkett: I ain't going to no damn office.
Plinkett: All right, there we go.
Plinkett: Now we can get it on.
