Aug 26, 2011
Chicago Comic Con 2011
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g7_Cr6NgAz8
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/107157584154329088
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-chicago-comic-con

Half in the bag.
I'm so sick of talking about movies.
Nurse Naughty.
I don't think she's a real nurse.
Hey, hey.
Sorry I'm late.
But, just got back from the Cleveland Comic Con.
I had to get Lou Ferrigno's autograph!
Oh, yeah.
I just didn't have time when we were in Chicago.
And he so rarely does conventions.
So, what are you working on?
Oh, I just mounted a shelf.
Remember all the cool stuff all the vendors at Chicago Comic Con were giving us?
No.
I don't.
Really?
It just happened.
Well, anyway, I thought it'd be cool to display it all here.
Well, you realize that this is not your house, right?
And that you probably shouldn't be mounting a shelf in someone else's house?
What are you talking about?
That what you're doing is, is unethical and illegal.
So if these people gave us this stuff, what did we give them in return?
It wasn't money, was it?
Oh, god no.
Oh.
Thank god.
We gave them copies of our movie Feeding Frenzy.
Don't you remember anything?
You know all this stuff is pretty neat.
I wonder what all those vendors thought of Feeding Frenzy.
Hello, and welcome to Half in the Bag.
I'm Mike.
And I'm Jay.
And on this episode, we'll be recapping our recent trip to the Chicago Comic Con.
That's right.
It was four days of madness.
Comic books, Q&A panels, artists, celebrities, and Ray Park.
And of course as always we brought along our trusty video camera to document the
weekend's event.
Hey, we're at the 2011 Chicago Comic Con.
This is, uh, Friday.
Comic Con just started.
There's a baby in the thing.
Oh, go on ahead.
We've got two more days of exciting comic book adventures.
The fuck?
So, Mike, what is Comic Con?
Comic Con is basically a giant room where everyone tries to take your money.
Mm-hmm.
It's also a place where you could meet your favorite comic book artists, celebrities, or, you know,
browse some of the dealer tables and look for useless junk you don't need.
Hey, everybody.
Here I am standing next to a whole bunch of future landfill.
If you're looking for a Little Nicky action figure, it's the place to be.
So, Jay, what was your general impression of the Chicago Comic Con?
Uh, it was fun.
It was very crowded.
Very, very crowded.
We've done a few of these conventions but not one that was quite this big before.
Right.
This is definitely the biggest.
It was definitely the biggest thing, and it was packed.
We're here at 2011...So, for those of you who have never been to Comic Con, and I assume most of our viewers probably have, um, it generally breaks down like this.
There's a section, which we call the celebrity zoo...
Welcome to the celebrity zoo, where careers come to die.
Uh, which features actors, and entertainers, and people like that, that will sign autographs for you, and you can talk to them.
Uh, they will do this for free.
Oh?
For free?
I don't think that's what you meant to say.
You're right.
I'm sorry.
What I meant to say was cash.
But, for free, you can have Christopher Lloyd chew food in your face.
So, yeah, the, uh, the celebrity zoo section is very odd.
It, it feels like a zoo.
Like, it's called a museum.
Mm-hmm.
Where everyone has their little display, and their name is there, and it's very, like, you feel awkward, like, you don't want to make eye contact with them unless you're willing to give them money.
Yeah, yeah.
And you feel weird going up to them and just chatting.
Yeah.
And then, like, walking away without buying something, like you've wasted their time.
Because you know that's what they're thinking.
You've blocked their table from potential other customers, and they're just, like, looking down with their pictures.
Yeah.
Mike:Are you gonna buy something?
Are you gonna buy something?
It, it, it feels like it's a forced human interaction.
Mm-hm.
It, it's, I don't know, it's, psychologically, it's a little strange, because they do look like they're things on display.
Yeah.
Remember this person from this show?
Here they are in this section.
Yeah, especially when there's nobody around their table.
Then it really feels like, uh, the unloved exhibit at the museum.
So I used to go to Star Trek conventions a lot.
I said that out loud.
You're actually admitting to that?
Yeah, I did, when I was younger.
And, um, they were creation entertainment conventions.
And they're a little different because there was always, like, one big celebrity that would come.
One big Star Trek star.
Hmm.
One or two, you know.
And, um, then the day would go where, you know, you'd get led into the convention, and you'd go around and buy things, and there would be a couple little events happening.
They'd play a music video, or they would do trivia.
Or something like that, but everything would lead up to, like, 5:00 p.m. when the, the Star Trek star would come onstage.
Talked for a bit, do a Q&A, and then they would sign autographs at a table at the end.
Okay.
Everyone would get in line, and it would feel kind of like a big event.
Sure.
And, and Comic Con's a little different, and I understand the difference, like, when you have so many stars, you know, you can't do that.
But, that's why it feels weird.
It felt more like an event, like, here's the big star.
But when you, when you reduce them to sitting in a cage that you can just walk by and ignore them...
Yeah.
And it's, like, why would these actors, like, sign up do this?
You have to think, like, is, are they desperate for cash?
Yeah.
And that's, that's another thing that runs through your mind, too.
And, and it does feel like you're exploiting them.
Yeah.
Like you're putting someone on display.
It's, it's almost like modern-day slavery.
Excuse me, do you know where I could find a copy of the Star Wars Holiday Special?
Hi, I'd like to buy a copy of the Star
Wars Holiday Special.
I don't have any.
You don't have any?
Sorry, Mr. Lucas.
Don't have any.
All right.
All right.
Hi, I'd like to purchase a copy of the Star Wars Holiday Special.
Fifteen bucks.
Fifteen?
Thank you.
Hi, my name is Paul, Paul Superman.
Um, do you have any copies of the Star Wars Holiday Special?
Of course we do.
There you go.
I'll take every one you have.
Hi, I would like to purchase this.
Hey...fifteen.
Let me get you a bag.
That's okay.
Thank you.
Hi.
Do you have any copies of the Star Wars Holiday Special?
Yeah, right there on the end.
Wow.
We're in the dealer space, and this place is huge.
I mean, it's got to take up at least a thousand square feet.
I mean, look at all this stuff.
You can find everything, from junk to garbage.
The vendor area is interesting.
It's kind of, like, uh, we had mentioned the celebrities zoo feels like a museum, and the, uh, the vendor area is similar.
It's like a pop culture museum.
It's just,
walking around and seeing all these old toys and these action figures that you didn't even know existed or didn't remember, and, and it's, it's interesting, it's fun, but I would never ever spend any money on any of that stuff.
I think you'd have to be, uh, kind of an idiot to blow all your money on all this old cheap crap.
But what did you think of the vendor area?
Oh, I thought it was awesome.
Really?
Because I found something I've been looking for for a long time.
This William T. Riker action figure.
You spent $185 on that?
Oh, god, no.
I stole it.
There's a lot of Star Wars titles here.
Star Wars: Deleted Magic.
Hmm.
Oh.
I'd pick up a copy of this.
But I won't.
And lastly, the most stupidest part of Comic Con is the artists alley.
Hey, everybody.
We're here in the artist alley, and that's where you going to find artists and creators and writers of comic books, which is really the heart of Comic Con.
And that's why the artist alley is located all the way in the back where nobody can find it.
Well, Jay, speaking of the artist alley, we finally got to meet Freddie Williams, who is an illustrator for DC Comics, and he did the artwork for the movie poster for our film Feeding Frenzy.
Do you mind, you fucking asshole?
What's the problem?
I, it's right in my face.
Oh, was this in your way?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.I didn't even notice.
I'll move it to a better spot.
That's better.
Hi, I'm here with DC Comics artist, Freddie Williams.
How you doing today, Freddie?
I'm doing great.
Freddie was the guy who drew the cover art for our film feeding frenzy.
Oh, uh, that.
Yeah.
Well, um, what was it like you know designing the characters and the layout and and all the artwork and how did that go for you 
Agreeing to do this was probably the worst mistake of my career.
That movie is fucking horrible.
Would you like a copy?
No.
No, not really.
All joking aside, though, Freddie is a really cool guy, and it was great to meet him in person.
He stopped by our booth.
We chatted a lot, and, uh, and he actually signed our poster for us, which was pretty cool.
Even cooler was when he helped us knife that homeless guy behind the Convention Center.
We also ran into our old friend, and Toronto's only, Sexy Nerd Girl.
Hey, everybody.
We're here with the one and only Sexy Nerd Girl.
How are you doing today?
I'm doing good.
How are you doing, Mike?
I'm doing great.
How's the convention for you so far?
Great.
That's right, Jay.
And it was a good thing that she was there, because I had some very important information to tell her.
Well, listen the reason why I stopped you and wanted to, to talk to you was because I have a friend...
Okay.
Um, you know, he's, he's kind of interested in you.
Um, he would like to take you out to dinner sometime.
Um, he wanted to know if you're single.
Um...
Okay.
His name is Rich Evans.
Okay.
Great.
Wow?
Do you know who he is?
Rich Evans?
I don't.
Oh, I also ran into Worf.
Worf, how are you doing today?
It is hot in here, but it's hot on Kronos.
I see you have the traditional Klingon blade.
Yes.
And I had just a moment to ask him an important question.
Now, today, did you happen to bring you our purple space bazooka?
My what?
Your giant purple space bazooka that you shoot in Star Trek: Insurrection.
"No, I left that back on the ship."
Oh.
Oh, well.
So, the Chicago Comic Con, it was a lot of fun, but boy, it was a hectic couple of days.
It was busy, yeah, it was a constant struggle of being at the booth and making time to talk to everybody that wanted to talk to us but, then still getting away from the booth to go shoot things.
Yeah, it always seemed like there was something happening that we were missing.
Yeah.
There's so much going on.
It's, like, all these big stars were there, like Patrick Stewart, and Bruce Campbell was also there.
Yeah.
Got to mention him.
Yeah.
Um, and and the ladies of the Evil Dead movie were there.
So, they had them all together.
They did a Q&A panel, which is one of the things we were able to catch.
Yes, yes.
Which was exciting because I'm a big Evil Dead fan, and those guys are pros when it comes to the Q&A's.
Bruce Campbell is a master.
Yes.
He's also a master of, of showing complete contempt for the people asking questions, and everybody still loving him for it.
During the Evil Dead Q&A, Bruce Campbell did briefly talk about the upcoming Evil Dead remake.
And someone did ask him the question that I had.
Was he ever going to play Ashe again in another Evil Dead film?
A lot of Q&A's, I really would've liked to see as well.
You know, Patrick Stewart, uh, Lou Ferrigno.
Who wouldn't want to miss that?
But don't forget, Jay, we did manage to interview at least one celebrity.
Hey, we're here with Levar Burton from TV's Star Trek: The Next Generation: How are you doing today?
Excuse me, is the line for the restroom?
Are you sure this is the line for the restroom?
So, Chicago Comic Con.
It was fun.
It was nice to meet everybody that came up to the booth, and, and run around and see weird things.
I enjoyed the experience, but it was really exhausting.
And it was really crowded.
Yeah, like, when we went to see the Evil Dead panel, we came back and our booth was just completely trashed.
Right, right.
Yeah, it must have been just a crowd of people, you know, in the walkway, and just something happened.
I don't know.
That's what happens when you put a bunch of nerds in a big room.
