Mar 11, 2011
Drive Angry and The Adjustment Bureau
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvqRCv-DwME
https://twitter.com/the_pc_doc/status/46666497774465024
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/blog-post-title-four-2326n

["Half in the bag!"]
["Fuck movies."]
Plinkett: A-da-da-da-da-da-da-da, I'm gonna sit in my favorite chair.
Plinkett: Oh, god help me.
Plinkett: Ugh!
Plinkett: Looks like Jackie Gleason's still dead.
Plinkett: Oh, I hope it's not another Michael Bay movie. 
Mike: Oh, my god.
Mike: It smells like...oh. 
Jay: Uh, Mr. Plinkett?
Jay: I'm Jay.
Jay: This is Mike.
Jay: We're with Lightning Fast VCR Repair.
Plinkett: Oh, thank god you guys are finally here.
Plinkett: Look, my VCR needs some work done on it.
Mike: Is that your VCR?
Mike: Oh, my god.
Mike: Wow.
Mike: That, well, that's a beaut, sir.
Mike: What, what's wrong with it?
Mike: It looks fine. 
Plinkett: Well, you see, last Tuesday I was, was balancing my checkbook, and, well, you know...
Jay: Okay.
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: We haven't had a VCR repair job in about 15 years.
Mike: I know.
Jay: We need to milk this for as long as we can.
Mike: Well, usually the elderly are pretty stupid.
Jay: Oh, god yeah.
Mike: Our current rate right now for a repair job of this nature is about $50 an hour.
Plinkett: Oh, you know, you two guys you smell like the backseat of an old taxicab.
Plinkett: I like that in a person.
Plinkett: It reminds me of my dear old dad.
Plinkett: Hard-working, blue-collar guy kind of guy who'd come home every night, beat his wife, and fuck his kids.
Plinkett: If you two knuckleheads need me, I'm gonna be in the kitchen.
Mike: So, so we got the job?
Plinkett: Yeah. 
Mike: Let's do it!
Jay: Fuck yeah! 
Mike: Yeah! 
Jay: All right, uh, you go get the tools.
Jay: I've moved chairs into the middle of the room where we can just sit and do nothing.
Mike: All right.
Jay: All right.
Mike: Let's do it.
Mike: Oh, shit.
Jay: So, anyway, about the fuck saw.
Mike: Oh, right.
Mike: The fuck saw. 
Jay: Yeah, the fuck saw.
Mike: You know. 
Mike: Yeah. did you know Thomas Edison was the inventor of the fuck saw?
Jay: Really?
Jay: Was it called a fuck saw at that point?
Mike: No, it was called the I-love-you-saw.
Jay: Oh.
Jay: I guess, uh, I guess times have changed a little bit.
Mike: Times really have changed.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Oh, hi.
Jay: Oh, hi!
Mike: Welcome to Half in the Bag.
Mike: I'm your host, Mike Stoklasa, and with me is--
Jay: I'm Jay Bauman. 
Mike: And, uh, we're going to talk about movies we saw this week while we're supposed to be fixing Mr. Plinkett's VCR.
Mike: We saw a few movies this week.
Mike: The first was called Drive Angry in 3D, and starred Nicolas Cage and a very hot blonde-haired woman.
Jay: And the second movie we saw was The Adjustment Bureau, starring Matt Damon and a very hot brown-haired woman.
["Just so you know, I don't pick up hitchhikers."]
["I didn't have my thumb out."]
["Drive Angry, shot in 3D."]
Jay: Drive Angry is a movie about Nicolas Cage, as a man who escapes from hell, somehow, to rescue his daughter's daughter from being sacrificed by a cult of Satan worshipers, which sounds like the greatest movie ever made.
Mike: The operative phrase there was "sounds like" it would be the greatest film.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: This film was, was acceptable.
Mike: Um, it's a little disappointing.
Mike: It, uh, it was, it was very vulgar.
Mike: It was very violent, and it seemed like it was trying too hard to be cool.
Mike: Being cool, having your movie be cool, is something that happens naturally.
Mike: It can't be forced.
Mike: Do you agree?
Jay: I do agree.
Jay: Yeah, I kept thinking while watching this movie, wondering what it would be like if someone like Robert Rodriguez directed the same material, uh, someone that is a little more adept at handling it and, and has a little more style about how they--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --how they embrace their schlock.
Mike: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: I mean the film sort of reminded me of an Applebee's, in the way where you go into an Applebee's, and it's very, like, fake and, and manufactured and, and corporate, unlike a, uh, uh, family restaurant that's been around for a while has some sort of character to it.
Mike: Um, and it was trying to be something that it wasn't.
Jay: One of the things that I think kind of weighted down is Nicolas Cage's performance.
Jay: He was very, sort of, stoic and boring and monotone.
Jay: The movie would have benefited from batshit-insane Nicolas Cage, uh, uh, Bad Lieutenants and Wicker Man Nicolas Cage.
Jay: I will say, though, as much as I didn't like Nicolas Cage's performance in the movie, I thought it was a great performance by his hair.
Mike: Oh, his hair is amazing. 
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, and about the 3D aspects of the movie...I don't know, do you like 3D?
Jay: I generally don't like 3D.
Jay: I appreciate it more when it's used, like, it was used in Drive Angry is just like a cheap, stupid gimmick.
Jay: Uh, that's about the only time that I find it entertaining, but now everything is in 3D, it sort of loses that--
Mike: Yeah.
Jay: --that novelty.
Mike: I wouldn't want to see Just Go with It with Adam Sandler in 3D.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: Or, I don't know, The King's Speech in 3D.
Jay: Actually, that movie would probably would have benefited from 3D.
Mike: Yeah, yeah, but, um...
Jay: Geoffrey Rush's nose would be right in your face.
Mike: Right, right, and this gigantic microphone.
Jay: Mm-hmm
Mike: I don't see what, I think it's just a marketing gimmick. 
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: Honestly.
Jay: Sure.
Mike: Because--
Jay: At this point--
Mike: Well, I see in 3D every day.
Mike: I've seen in 3D my whole life.
Jay: It's true, yeah. 
Mike: So what's, like, when I go watch a movie, I want to watch in 2D.
Mike: I want to watch a flat screen.
Mike: I just want to watch the movie for the performances in the story.
Jay: I just want to see in 3D, just boobs and yo-yo's.
Mike: Oh, yo-yo's. 
Jay: That's all you need to see in a 3D movie.
Mike: So, your, your final thoughts on Drive Angry 3D?
Jay: Uh, Drive Angry 3D is not, stupid, or bad enough to be entertaining.
Mike: My thoughts on the film: if, if you like violence, explosions, boobs, blood, muscle cars, cigars, Jack Daniels, beer bottles, bar fights, sex, guns...oh, there's a tanker truck that blows up-- 
Jay: Hay sickles.
Mike: Hay sickles.
Mike: Chains.
Mike: Violence.
Mike: Dirty hotel rooms.
Mike: Nicolas Cage's hair.
Mike: If you like all those things, you will love this movie, and you will really enjoy it, but if you're looking for something that's a little clever or interesting, or different, you probably won't.
Jay: If you're looking for a good movie or a so-bad-it's-good-movie, this one falls right, right in the middle. 
Mike: So, it's probably skippable.
Mike: So, at the end of the film, Nicolas Cage saves his baby granddaughter from being sacrificed by the satanic cult, and then returns to Hell where he's going to burn forever in eternity.
Mike: On to our next film, which is called The Adjustment Bureau.
Mike: Matt Damon plays Matt Damon as a congressman, who's running for Senate in the state of New York.
Mike: He falls in love with a dancer played by Emily Blunt, and, uh, his whole world is thrown upside down when he discovers that there are secret agents running the show of the world.
Mike: They're adjusting things because they work their other, they're essentially angels that are working for someone called The Chairman, which is alluded to essentially being God.
Jay: Played by George Burns.
Mike: Who's played by George Burns, and of course the plan is for Matt Damon not to fall in love with this, this very charming woman.
Mike: Essentially, the plot of this movie is, uh, Man vs. Fate, man versus his own destiny, um, and making choices, the choices you make, how it adjusts your future and, and things like that, and it's also a very, very simple, very charming love story.
Jay: That's what surprised me the most was how sweet the movie was.
Jay: It was more of a romance movie, and less of an action movie, which I think is what the trailers are kind of making it seem to be. 
Mike: Only thing I saw was just a few seconds from the trailer, and, and it basically, it showed Matt Damon running.
Mike: Matt Damon's always running.
Mike: If you're expecting kind of a really deep psychological action movie or something along those lines, you're not really going to get it from this.
Mike: There's a couple of, kind of interesting chase parts and stuff like that, but really, it's mostly about those two characters, and they're very charismatic, and, and you really like them.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: You really like her, especially.
Mike: She's very charming. 
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: And if she was played by another actress, the whole film would have fallen apart for me.
Mike: Let's see, who, who would have ruined the movie.
Mike: Um, well, Cameron Diaz.
Jay: Oh, god. 
Mike: Who, who's the actress with the like squished face?
Jay: Renee Zellweger?
Mike: Yes.
Mike: Yeah, you, you wouldn't, you wouldn't want to risk the fate of the universe for Renee Zellweger.
Jay: I, I should point out that this movie contains two of my favorite overused movie cliches, the first one being the hero running to get the girl just as she's about to marry someone else.
Mike: That's a classic.
Jay: That's a classic.
Jay: And the second one being, uh, the expository dialogue delivered with characters on a boat.
Mike: Oh, right.
Jay: They always feel the need to stop mid-conversation and say, we should talk about this later.
Jay: Cut to them on a boat. 
Mike: They have a clandestine meeting somewhere and, even though they could finish the conversation there, he says, let's meet today at 4pm.
Jary: Yeah.
Mike: At the docks.
Jay: Yes.
Mike: And, I, I think that's just for a change of visual scenery.
Jay: Sure, sure, but I always just think about them actually getting to the dock, paying their fare.
Jay: Who pays the fare?
Jay: Which one of them pays the fare?
Mike: That's a good question. Well, or what if the boat is more crowded than where they were before?
Jay: Yeah, yeah.
Mike: But, maybe the guy just likes boat rides.
Mike: So yeah, I, I, I would recommend The Adjustment Bureau to the right audience.
Jay: Yeah. 
Mike: I would recommend it to Grandma.
Jay: Sure. 
Mike: Or, or if you're taking a date. 
Jay: Yeah.
Jay: It's a very, it's a very safe, bland, Hollywood movie.
Jay: It's inoffensive, it's not pandering, not great, not bad, very sort of middle-of-the-road, well-made, well-acted, not very complicated.
Mike: It won't be remembered for decades to come, but you won't want to kill yourself while you're watching it. 
Jay: Maybe we should actually take a look at the VCR now? 
Mike: Well, that wraps up this episode.
Mike: We'll see you guys next time when we're gonna review a new, um--
