Aug 6, 2011
Cowboys and Aliens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vYyHedwTb_Q
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/99959511359561728
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/120602201368975
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-cowboys-and-aliens

Half in the bag.
I just pooped all over the floor.
What is that?
It's some movie called Deathlist?
Hmm.
Haven't heard of it.
But maybe we could watch it when we fix the VCR.
Anyways, so I'm at the bus stop this morning, right?
And this little kid comes riding by on a skateboard, and he spits on me.
And he goes, fuck you, motherfucker!
And he keeps riding, and I was like, what did I do?
That's weird, because something similar happened to me on my way to work this morning.
Hmm.
Kids today.
They just have no respect for their elders.
Hey, guys.
Anybody wants some snacks?
Oh, fuck it.
The hell is that?
It's a brick with a note on it.
People still do that?
Apparently so.
What does it say?
Um, your Captain America review is bullshitter.
Uh, the movie is fucking awesome.
To me, at least all Marvel movies are awesome.
Oh, there's more.
Oh, good.
You duche bags can't appreciatate movies.
What is appreciatate?
I think they mean appreciate.
Oh.
It's, it, they, they spelled almost every word wrong.
Wow.
This person really liked Captain America.
I wonder what they thought of Cowboys and Aliens.
So, we just saw Cowboys and Aliens, which is the new film from Jon Favreau, the director of Iron Man.
Cowboys and Aliens is a genre-bending, sci-fi, Western, action-adventure movie that stars Harrison Ford and Daniel Craig.
So, Jay, what did you think of Cowboys and Aliens.
I was, uh, pleasantly surprised by how much I actually really liked this movie.
It's not a great movie, but it's a solid movie.
And, and that's all you can really hope for in these dire summer months.
In these dark times?
Was that where you were going to say?
I also liked the movie quite a bit.
I wouldn't say I loved it, but it was very, very good.
Yes.
Um, I had a feeling of unease throughout the first half of the movie.
I kept waiting for it to turn into garbage.
I kept waiting for it to just take that nosedive into stupidity and pandering schlock.
I was really nervous when I saw the poster for the movie, and saw that there was, like, 25 different screenwriters involved.
Yeah, you know what that means.
There's an expression for that, right?
Yeah, it's too many cocks in the kitchen.
Yes, yes.
Fortunately, Jon Favreau, as a director, knows how to wrangle all those cocks.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's very good at, at grabbing a whole bunch of different cocks and pulling them all together and saying...wait, isn't it cooks?
The expression, isn't too many cooks in the kitchen, are we getting that right?
I don't think that makes any sense.
So, let's talk about audience reactions-slash-expectations.
There seems to be this misconception that you and I go into movies just wanting to hate them, and looking for things to pick apart and ridicule, uh, which really isn't the case when it comes to these big, dumb summer movies.
I, I don't have very high expectations.
All I want is a solid movie with a beginning, middle, and end, and maybe some mild characterization, and just not sloppy, nonsensical storytelling.
Uh, a movie I think of all the time is when it comes to action adventure movies is Die Hard, the original Die Hard.
Yes.
It's not a very deep movie.
You don't have to think heavily about it, but it's a solid movie.
Yeah.
It's a well-constructed movie.
Yes.
And, and this movie, Cowboys and Aliens, is a well-constructed movie.
It's...establishes a tone, at the beginning, and it follows that all the way through.
Yeah.
And because of the premise being kind of silly -- cowboys fighting aliens -- uh, you either go with that or you don't.
There's two ways you could have taken Cowboys and Aliens, and I think that's where some of the problem comes in with the mixed reviews, is you could take this subject, which is what, exactly what I wanted from this movie.
I like when science fiction stays serious.
Sure.
Um, you could take this concept of, what if, the what-if concept.
An alien spaceship landed in the wild wild west in the late 1800's, and aliens were doing something, and they ran into a bunch of cowboys.
What would happen, realistically?
And, and I think this movie kind of, kind of stays true with that.
Yeah.
It doesn't, it doesn't get too stupid.
No.
And it remains kind of realistic.
One of the things that works well in Cowboys and Aliens is the plot, for me.
Um, it's not overly complicated, and it's fairly simple, and those were simple times, so it's easy to do that.
And, and it opens with Daniel Craig waking up just in, on the ground, and he can't remember what happened.
So he goes into town, and that, and that's pretty typical of a Western.
Like, the loner coming into town.
Right.
What are you doing here?
You're not from around these parts, mister.
And, and he can't remember his past, and there's a mystery, and you're kind of involved in that.
And, and it's fairly simple.
Yeah.
Well, that's, that's the thing with, this movie's have been getting very mixed reactions.
And, uh, going back to audience, uh, expectations, and people talking about us wanting to go into a movie, picking it apart, what I have found in the online reaction to this is that everybody's trying to nitpick this movie to death, and they're mistaking what they call plotholes with things that are unnecessary for what the movie needs to do to tell its story.
Uh, the big one being, I've seen a ton of comments online about the fact that the aliens are on earth to mine gold, and all these comments online are saying, well, there's a big plot hole.
You never know what the aliens want with the gold.
Mm-hmm.
It's like, that is completely irrelevant.
That's not a plot hole, because it doesn't affect the plot at all.
The plot of the movie is a small group of people working together to save their loved ones from a mysterious threat that they know very little about.
Right.
Knowing what those aliens wanted the gold for would have zero effects on that plot.
Yeah.
By not giving you certain information like what the aliens did with the gold when they went back to their home planet doesn't affect the logic of the movie.
Right.
The logic that, the movie is about the group of characters, and how they grow and change and learn things.
Yeah.
especially Harrison Ford's character who, you know, he has father issues.
Yeah.
And that's the nice thing about this movie, is they take a lot of time to set up all these characters.
And they pay it off.
And they pay it off.
Everything is paid off.
But really, it, it takes the subject matter completely serious, as if aliens were in the late 1800's, come across a group of cowboys and people in the Wild West.
Yeah.
And, and, and those characters respond to the aliens in the way that they should.
Yeah.
Not in modern-time lingo and reactions, and, you know.
Yeah.
And, and that's what I like about it.
And, and that's the two different ways you could have taken this movie was play it completely straight or make it schlock.
Yeah.
And make it silly.
And one of the two would have done okay.
Both could have workedm but they played it straight.
Yeah.
Roland Emmerich, Michael Bay, right in the middle.
Mm-hmm.
And, and that's where they fail.
Well, speaking of the characters, let's talk about the performances in the movie.
Um, you've got a lot of big-name actors...oh, no.
Not again.
There's another brick.
What does this one say?
You guys know nothing about comic books, so therefore you shouldn't review comic book movies.
Please, just stop.
Hmm.
Oh, there's a PS.
His name is Red Skull, not Red Skeleton, dumbfucks.
I, I like the fact that that these Old West people are just completely baffled about what's going on.
Yeah.
And, and just the little touches, like, like, Harrison Ford, they, they show a spaceship, and they don't go, look out, it's their spaceship!
He, he calls it a flying machine.
Yeah.
Well, Jon Favreau is an actor's director, which I like.
Going all the way back to Swingers, which he didn't direct, but he was the writer on it, and a big part of the creative process.
It's a very performance-driven movie.
Mm-hmm.
And there's a lot of improv, and that carries all the way over into Iron Man, which is this giant, you know, multi-million dollar movie.
But the performances still have a very sort of improvisational quality to 'em.
Do you remember the part where, where Jeff Bridges offers him pizza?
Mm-hmm.
And then he says, no, you can't have any pizza.
No, you can have it.
Like, it's just a little moment, and it, it only takes two seconds, and it doesn't add anything to the movie, but it's great.
Yeah.
And, uh, that carries over into this, where the movie just takes time to slow down and let the performers have their moments to shine.
Yeah.
And I appreciated that.
What happens in the movie is the aliens are stealing gold, which, which of course is very, a very, uh, old Wild West kind of thing, which I thought was a clever touch.
Yeah.
But, um, they're, they're sucking the gold out of the ground, and, and I think I thought that was neat.
Yeah.
Because gold is a, it's not just a precious element for, you know, people that love gold, but, you know, it's, it's a rare element, and it has certain properties to it that that could be valuable to an alien.
Sure.
So I thought that was completely plausible and neat, because, um, uh, the Gold Rush and the Wild West and all that, and I thought that was cool.
But Harrison Ford's like, why are they stealing our gold?What, are they gonna buy something with it?
Yeah.
Like, he's completely, he has no idea what's going on.
Yes.
And it's, it's the part when...
What the hell is this?
Mr. Plinkett, what are you doing?
Oh, I just decided right now that for no good reason I would put out my priceless vase.
Yeah, you know, someone's been throwing bricks through the window all day.
I don't think that's the best idea.
Ehh, it'll be fine.
What is up with the stand.
It's, like, the flimsiest stand I've ever seen.
It's like he knows that vase is gonna break.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like he's expecting it.
Anyways, back to the movie.
Yeah.
So, let's talk about special effects, cuz this is a science fiction movie.
It is a blockbuster summer event movie.
What'd you think about it?
Uh, I liked that the effects were used sparingly.
And the action scenes themselves were used appropriately.
Yeah.
There, there wasn't too much of it.
It didn't go on too long.
Right.
It, it was used just enough to service the story.
Yes.
And I appreciated that.
And, uh...
Because a special effect without a story is a pretty boring thing.
Who said that?
Uh, Walt Whitman.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Wow.
No, I agree with you.
I, I did not, I don't know if I even noticed CGI.
And there's nothing wrong with CGI if used appropriately.
If used appropriately.
And blended in, and I think it was in this movie.
When, when I saw Transformers 3, when I saw the second half of Transformers 3, um, all I pictured in my brain was Michael Bay in a helicopter filming Chicago, filming shots of the street, and then someone painting in burning buildings and explosions, and then, and then close-ups of people hiding behind rubble, going, oh no, oh no!
And, and all those elements of how you put a movie together were all very apparent to me.
And, and, and it was all very, like, obvious to me.
This movie just blended everything in well.
And just from a design level, cuz I'm a monster movie guy, I like creatures, I like creature effects, and this is the first alien movie in a long time where I've actually liked the design of the creatures.
Yeah.
A lot of recent movies, like Super 8 or like Cloverfield, it just, it just feels like a big mess of, like, tentacles and vagina faces, and things like that.
Yeah.
And I, I genuinely like the look of these.
Yeah.
And there's parts when there's close-ups of 'em where it almost looks like maybe it could have been a rubber puppet monster.
Yeah.
It did look like a rubber monster.
It maybe was.
I don't know.
but the fact that I'm not completely positive, like, oh, that's CG.
Mm-hmm.
Like, that's a testament to the movie.
There were a lot of fairly predictable little subplots woven into the film, you know, like, like, but, but it wasn't offensive.
Like, Harrison Ford's, like, you know, here's a knife.
Oh, the knife thing, yeah, yeah.
Somtime in this movie you will use this and become a man.
I think he actually said at some point later in this movie you will use this knife.
And, uh, the obvious, the, the barkeep character, um, who's played by Sam Rockwell, uh, he cannot shoot a gun for shit.
Yeah.
And, uh, and then of course, at the end of the movie, he shoots the gun perfectly and saves somebody.
Right.
So it's, like, okay, later on he's going to hit something that's an impossibly hard to hit target.
But it's, but it's almost refreshing when something is set up early on in a movie where it does pay off.
Right.
Speaking of the aliens and how they had a neat look, you know, it wasn't horribly generic or anything.
I really liked it, actually.
Yeah, me too.
Um, there was a lot of cool, like, alien technology and horrifying alien things that happened...
Yes.
...in the movie that that were very, it was almost like the movie was done intentionally that way through the eyes of a simpler man.
Oh, yes.
Absolutely.
And, and, like, where they don't understand kind of what they're seeing, which, which was neat.
Yeah.
Um, uh, Daniel Craig has a lot of flashbacks about his experience being, being sucked up into the alien spaceship, and, and there's some really, really well-done creepy horrifying visuals.
Some of the stuff on the ship were, yeah, very creepy.
And you can't dismiss all that because of the movie's subject matter.
It's, it's actually a shame that they called the movie Cowboys and Aliens.
Yeah, yeah, it...
Don't you think so?
When I think of cowboys and aliens, I think of, like, Snakes on a Plane, or just something really sort of stupid and simplistic.
Yeah.
And that's, when I first heard about this movie, that's what I thought, like, wow, that's almost audacious to call your movie, like, to make your movie that blatant in the title.
Right.
Um, but it's almost a, a too well-made movie for such a, a b-movie kind of schlock title.
Yep.
Cuz I, I, I believe there is a, an old 1950's movie called, like, Cowboys vs Dinosaurs, or something like that.
Valley of the Gwangi...
Okay.
...is about Cowboys fighting dinosaurs.
Yes.
Where they're lassoing them.
That's "Valley of the Gwangi", yeah.
And there is a scene in this movie where someone lassos...
Yes.
...lassos the guy.
Again, that the title is sort of schlocky, which implies that it's going to be campy.
Right, which it isn't.
Which it isn't.
Which maybe is what...
Yeah.
...is putting some people off.
It's exactly what I like, when a science fiction premise takes itself 100% serious.
And I, I hate Will Smith, and I hate, I hate wisecracking in a science fiction movie.
I just hate it.
Yeah.
I love it in a comedy, but when something horrifying happens, I love it when things are taken seriously.
I believe I even said that in my interview with SexyNerdGirl.
You make a lot of reviews.
Yeah.
What makes a good science fiction movie to you?
Like, what do you look for when you're watching?
Um, I, I look for believability.
Okay.
I don't like it when a science ficiton movie is too, like, goofy.
I kind of like it when the characters are, are realistic...
Yeah.
...and the, the events are realistic, and it's kind of, like, how a science fiction event would occur in real life.
1Yeah.
It may not be action and explosion a minute.
It may take a long time to set up the characters.
It may move slowly.
But, in the end, it's satisfying, and that's just what I wanted.
This movie was a cinematic bowel movement for me.
It was, wasn't it?
After months and months and months of horrifying constipation.
Ahhhh.
Cuz I, I really hate movies where it's, like, so completely by the numbers.
Yeah.
Okay, now we have to wait for the, the hero to fight the bad guy on the roof.
Like, the bad guy can't just accidentally fall off the roof and die.
Yes.
And go, oh, or the bad guy gets killed by a random security guard.
And the, the hero goes, oh.
Or the Red Skull gets killed by Captain America, just sort of punching him, and then the thing going...
The Red, the Red Skull has an unrelated aneurysm.
And dies.
It has to be, like, and you're waiting for it, come on get to the part with, and it's, like, and, and, and this movie had that in a very mild way, to where it was very unoffensive.
And, and there was lots of little things that didn't offend me, that should've, but didn't.
Well, that's because it was it was surrounded by other elements.
It wasn't, like, that was the focal point of the ending, was just Daniel Craig fights that one alien.
Right.
There was other things happening.
Yeah.
There was, there was multiple, uh, plotlines that were coming to a head.
Yeah, and, and I think that's why people are not responding to this movie positively, or, or completely positively.
It's because all those elements that were so, are so bred into our brains at this point, are very toned down, or not overdone, and people are just used to that.
Yeah.
And it's, and that's why it was refreshing to me.
I was, like, ahhhh.
This movie is not punching me in the face with stupidity.
And, and I applaud them for not being stupid.
Oh, my god.
Oh, my god.
Really?
Was that another brick?
Another brick just came through the window.
Pick it up and see what this one says.
Maybe audiences don't want too much story distracting them, or something.
So, Cowboys and Aliens, do you recommend it to our fine audience?
I would recommend Cowboys and Aliens to an audience with an attention span, and to people that like movies that have a consistent tone and aren't a sloppy mess.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's not, it's not an incredibly smart movie.
Um, and Harrison Ford is fun in it.
Daniel Craig is good in it.
Um, Olivia Wilde is great.
I, I can't say it's a fun movie.
Well, it's a Western.
Tonally, it's a Western.
Yes.
And it follows that through, through the whole movie.
So, would you recommend the movie as well?
Uh, yeah.
Definitely.
Uh, I thought it was a good movie.
Um, but if you are a dumb kid who thinks that a story and characters get in the way of a movie, and are distracting the audience from special effects, you will not like this movie, because you will be bored, because you're stupid.
So don't, just don't go see this.
I'm just saying it like it is.
But if, if, if you're a person that likes movies, and likes performances, and likes visuals, and that was another thing, too, I wanted to mention.
I think we saw an actual film print.
Yeah.
Because I noticed little imperfections.
And, and I noticed when I saw Transformers 3, that it was not a film print.
It looked digital?
I can't describe it, but it looked crappy.
And then it looked flat.
This was glorious widescreen.
It was, it was a great image.
Desert landscapes.
Desert landscapes.
Real actors.
Real actors.
Real backgrounds.
Real backgrounds.
Um, and, and so it had sort of a nostalgic quality to it.
And so, if you're a fan, I, I, you know, I don't mean to keep sidetracking, but when they print in the ad this is a 2D or 3D projection, they need to print digital or film print next to it.
Because that would make me choose which theater I was gonna...Oh.
Oh, this one's for me.
