Mar 5, 2017
Get Out and Logan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6IZHrIviFo
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/838432255693434880
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10154414108762634
https://www.redlettermedia.com/half-in-the-bag/half-in-the-bag-get-out-and-logan

Where'd you even find this sweater?
It's covered in cat hair.
It was your grandmother's.
She was buried in it.
Don't ask me how I got it, but it involved a shovel, and digging up about six feet worth of dirt, and violently opening a coffin, and then removing said sweater from, uh, an old skeleton.
But, just, don't ask for the details.
Okay?
Mike, I don't know why you're being so vague, but don't you think this is kind of a pointless and terrible idea?
I'm starting to think that you're doing this just for your own sick pleasure.
No, of course not, Jay.
That's crazy.
Look, once you finally become Mrs. Harry Plinkett, then you and I can go down to that attorney's office, and we can make you -- I mean, us -- Mr. Plinkett's power of attorney.
Then we can steal all of his money and it'll be legal.
Did we have to invite all of my friends and family to the wedding?
Does it have to be held at the Ritz-Carlton?
Did you have to hire Adele to sing our first dance?
Look, idiot.
If we just went down to the courthouse, it would look just like the scam that it is.
The fact that we're spending so much time and money and effort on it just makes it look that much more legit.
Don't you know how scams work?
It's not even worth trying to stop you, is it?
No.
Look, we're gonna take the engagement photos today, so get ready, okay?
Make sure your perfect hair and beard are perfectly coifed.
They usually are!
Ughhh, I got into a bar fight.
Oh, my god, what happened to you, my love?
I, I mean, what happened to you, Mr. Plinkett?
Ugh, I wore my Make America Great Again hat to a Mexican restaurant.
They shoved it up my rectum.
They were some bad hombres.
Yeah, well, I'm sure you have a crazy story to tell us, Mr. Plinkett.
So, uh, why don't you have a seat next to Jay here?
Tell us all about what happened.
There's no chair.
Oh, that's okay.
You can, uh, just sit on Jay's knee.
Uh, okay.
And just, uh, we wanna hear all about the bar fight.
Oh, god.
What is this?
Just, just trust me.
Now, Jay, if you could hold up this sign like that, and Mr. Plinkett, if you'll hold up that, that's great.
All right, perfect.
Oh, a little bit, a little bit towards the camera, here.
Perfect.
Okay, great.
Great.
Uh...
Why are you taking my picture?
Oh!
Uh, you know, to document your injuries, in case you decide to press charges against the Mexican restaurant, or for a police report, that sort of thing.
Oh, okay.
So, trust me, this, just a little bit this way.
And Jay, if you could smile a little, that would be helpful.
No.
Okay...
Why does he need to smile?
Aaaaand I got what I need!
Okay, thanks.
Um, I'm gonna go to sleep right now.
If I don't wake up, bury me next to my dog in my backyard.
Ol' Trumpy.
All this wedding planning is really stressing me out.
We should talk about two movies that are completely stress-free and not depressing at all.
Get Out, and Logan.
Very light-hearted, and fun to watch.
And I've seen both of these films, so it's perfect that you and I can both talk about them now on our internet review show.
Our what?
I mean, in these chairs, in Mr. Plinkett's house, which is a real house.
Mike, what did you think of Get Out?
Get Out!
Isn't it a shame that the movie's not terrible, because in every single review, it would say, get out...of the theatre!
But Jordan Peele had to go and make a good movie.
Uh, well, Get Out was a thoroughly enjoyable film.
Uh, it was a little, uh, I found it uneven, um, and kind of like a big episode of Star Trek, where people go to a place, they discover something weird is going on, and then they investigate it, and it's like, oh, that's what was going on this whole time!
Uh...
I think a more apt comparison would be, like, The Twilight Zone, or maybe Tales from the Crypt, moreso than Star Trek.
What about Hot Fuzz?
Oh, okay.
I can see a little bit of Hot Fuzz.
Without us getting into spoilers...yeah.
Obviously, everyone, if you've seen the trailer, I think you really just need to watch the trailer.
It's such an excellent trailer.
Watching the trailer, that's one of my complaints.
Because I really really liked the movie, but the trailer spoils way too much of it.
Because, because it's a movie, almost, not everything, but--
There's one twist.
--close to everything.
One twist it doesn't spoil.
Uh, cuz it really is one of those things where it's like, guy shows up, something's slightly off, and you want to discover along with him what weird things are going on.
And the trailer gives most of it away in quick succession.
I found, like, like as a, a mystery, horror, Invasion of the Body Snatchers type of plot thing, I found the actual twist or plotline conclusion to be rather...uninteresting?
If it was all, like, a big, horrible misunderstanding, that would've been different, you know what I mean?
Sure, sure.
It was like, it was like, straight up, boom boom boom booom boom, um, you know, and then, of course, the, there's, that's, that's the plotline.
And I think that's why it kind of reminds me of Star Trek, is that there's, there's the literal, actual storyline, and then there's like this, this social commentary on top of it.
Right.
The black guy has a white girlfriend, and he's terrified.
He says white people make him nervous.
He has to go to, the dad's a neurosurgeon, the mom's a therapist.
They live in, like, uh, probably Connecticut, or Vermont.
Some rich white state.
And, you know, he feels, like, uncomfortable.
Yeah.
Because he doesn't know if the parents are going to accept him and all of that, and then it turns out--
She hasn't told him before they show up that he's black.
She hasn't told the parents.
Yes, so, so, you know, he's nervous about that.
That, there is, there's that on top of it, but then there's something else going on, kind of like, that's your Star Trek story.
And then there's your little twist at the end.
Oh, they're doing this.
Because I've been watching, rewatching, a lot of T.O.S. lately, and that's every episode of T.O.S.
Do you ever stop watching Star Trek?
No.
But t I, I, I'm rewatching T.O.S. cuz it's been a little while, and, uh...
A couple, a couple days?
And almost every episode is a nightmarish horror movie scenario where the, the Starship Enterprise crew go down somewhere, and there's something funky going on, and they gotta find out what.
But, I think your point about the trailer giving away way too much--
Yes.
--is because the trailer gives almost every beat of the whole movie.
It's an excellent trailer, edited very well.
Yeah.
And you're like, this is great.
This is a great movie.
And it, it's also one of those movies that, if it wasn't so well-executed, that it would border on, this is a movie that's, that works as a fake trailer format.
Mmm.
Like, a horror movie about a black guy going to meet a white girl's parents, and him basically walking into a nightmare world.
The, the general anxieties and fears of doing that anyway, and then on top of that...
Yes.
...there's something sinister going on.
And, like, Rich Evil White People Are Monsters: The Movie is a great little, like, nugget.
Sure.
Um, but then there's, like, the whole fact that the whole movie is well-acted, well-executed...
It's an incredibly well-made movie.
I, I really liked the movie a lot.
I think I mentioned the, uh, I had mentioned, I really liked...
What?
I really like water bottles.
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Go ahead.
Uh, well, I really liked, umm...do you hear that?
Wha-?
No, no.
Go ahead, go ahead.
Keep going.
Okay.
Well, I was saying that I really liked the movie.
Um, I thought that it was...is that, is that the, is that your water bottle that's making that noise?
Couldn't be.
Uh, uh, well, I had mentioned earlier Tales from the Crypt, and I think this premise would work really great as, like, a 30-minute Tales from the Crypt episode.
Uh, I liked the movie a lot, but I do feel like its premise is stretched a little thin.
I know they're trying to build the tension, and build the atmosphere, and it does a really good job of doing that, but beyond what you see in the trailer, there's not much more to it, except the twist at the end, is that...
Well, there is no twist at the end.
Not necessarily a twist.
There's more of a revelation of what's happening.
It's kind of like when people talk about Split, which is a movie we did not do on Half in the Bag.
I think both of us really liked Split.
Well...
But that's one -- not including the end scene, the Marvel-esque end scene -- but Split is another one where, it's not that it has a twist, it's that it has an escalation of the events that have already been established in the movie.
You wanted to talk about Split, and I did not.
So, I guess you could say, we're very...indecisive, about whether or not we would talk about it.
Sure, sure.
Uh, but what I really, it's hard to talk about this too much without getting into spoilers...
Spoilers.
Be a little vague.
Well, I'm gonna try and say it without, before we get into spoilers, but what I really liked about this movie is what it...didn't do?
Cuz I was picturing the, the dumb version of this movie.
Okay.
The late-career, George Romero version, where the social commentary is completely on the nose and broad and stupid.
Like, in another version of this movie where it, like, takes place in the South, and all the, the rich white folk are, are, uh, have Southern accents, and they're saying overtly racist things.
And it's just stupid.
And the message the social commentary of the movie is that racism is bad.
And that's not what this is at all.
It, it is about racism, but it's done in a much smarter way, where it's not overt racism.
It's not...it's not that.
Uh, it's, it's more, almost lean, going in the other direction, where it's like, these, okay, I guess now we are getting into spoilers.
Uh, it's these, these, like, uh, rich white folk that think they're being progressive and cool, by putting their brains into the bodies of black people.
I mean, there's, there's, it's, it's almost like it, that it flips itself, and, and you're looking at it through the Chris character.
Well, but they're specifically picking black people...
Yeah, well...
...because they, of the way they perceive it, and even early on, when they're having the party, and people are saying these things through the Chris character, and it's not, like, they're not being mean or condescending to him, but they're just so detached from his worldview...
Yeah.
Right.
...that it's, it's off-putting.
He, he has a different worldview, and he has a different way of perceiving everything that's going on.
He sees two black people, the, the, the maid housekeeper, and then the groundskeeper, and he's like, oh, they're, they're the servants.
And they're, they're not picking black people because they want to enslave them or use them, they're picking them just because they're better.
I mean, and, and it's weird, it's, and, and that's, that goes to the, like the third part of the discussion of this movie, which I will sweep under the rug and ignore.
It's, like, logic.
Mmm.
Um, and realism.
The fact that, um, I can sit there and go, well, um, you know, how come they didn't catch onto this?
How come the police didn't discover that this person is missing when they're clearly here, and how, you know, how does all this work?
Sure.
And it, it doesn't really matter.
Cuz that's not the point of the movie.
It's like a, yeah, it's like a folk tale, almost.
Yeah.
Like, it, in which, uh, reminds me, I want to mention the music.
Like, the opening scene of the movie, black dude walking through a very, sort of, affluent suburb neighborhood, um, you know, gets abducted, this is all played out in one shot, which is the camera kinda swirling around him, it's great.
And then, the opening credits start, and I heard strings, high-pitch strings, which is, like, classic horror movie stuff that you never hear anymore.
And it was like, ah!
Cuz that makes me think of, like, a folk tale, like, like, that type of sound.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I really loved the score, yeah.
Like, like, that's never used anymore.
Like, this is great!
And then the contrast to the music that he's listening to, there's, like an, uh, like an ironic use of kind of, like, happy music as he's being abducted, and...
Yeah.
Yes.
And then the opening font of the titles reminded me of -- John Landis only did two horror films, but it reminded me very much of John Landis.
I don't know if that was intentional, but lots of, lots of little influences that I felt throughout the whole thing.
Um, just really, really well-executed, especially considering it's his first, Jordan Peele's first film as a director.
Yeah, yeah.
It would have been so much more enjoyable had I not seen the trailer.
That's, that's the problem.
The ultimate revelation, which is that they're, you know, actually removing the brains from these people and putting them in other people's bodies, is so weird, that it, and it was unexpected for me, um, because I thought it was going to be more of just a hypnotist brainwashing thing, um, that I enjoyed it, just for that.
Like, like, uh, we mentioned Split earlier, that's another one that gets weird, and I like that horror movies are getting weird again, as opposed to just playing it safe and straight.
Yeah, to me, it didn't feel as weird as maybe it did to you.
Mm-hmm.
It felt like, uh, sort of like a sciencey experiment, mad scientist thing.
And I'm like, okay, got it.
What was sort of, like, sort of slightly disappointing, it was like, it had a very, like, violent and visceral ending, where it wasn't really very well resolved or written.
And it's just, like, Chris figures a way to escape, and he basically just fuckin murders everyone that's in his path.
Sure.
And there is no real, like, you know, we're doing this cuz of this, there's no, it, it, it didn't feel, like, and in a way, that was refreshing to me.
Sure.
I was, like, wreat, you know, you stabbed that guy with the deer antlers, you...
Well, it's more what happens after that, like, where there are things that were set up earlier, like, we established that the flash from the camera kind of brings the person back, so he uses that again.
Um, there's a red herring with the cop early on...
Yes.
...that you think might be in on it.
You think that cop show up at the end, and it turns out to be his friend that arrived to save him, so I think it was, it was clever, it was well-written.
Well, sure.
Everything was well set up, and, and it just sorta, it kinda reminded me a little bit of The Hateful Eight, where you have, like, this wonderful hour-and-a-half of just great characters, and then everyone just kills each other at the end.
Yeah...
And there's another thing, too, is like, I...am like, it wasn't a true social commentary without that cop car showing up, Chris getting arrested, and then ending it with a news report: A Black Man Murders Entire White Girl's Family.
Well, I thought that was what they were gonna do, like in Night of the Living Dead, where the cop was gonna show up and shoot him or something.
I mean, it would have been totally, like, frustrating and very satirical and all that if he...
It would have been obvious, I think, and that's why, that's why I appreciate, like I said earlier, all the things this movie didn't do, that it could have done.
That's the other thing worth discussing, is the TSA agent stuff, and how, like, light-hearted and goofy that was, in comparison...did you think that was a good mix?
In a lesser movie, I think that character would have been annoying and off-putting, but for whatever reason, I think maybe just because I was so, like, on-board with the rest of the movie, I actually thought he worked, and I laughed quite a bit.
Oh, yeah.
I did, too.
Talking about, when he was talking about Jeffrey Dahmer...I was laughing, and, like, that's not the type of character I usually like a horror movie.
It's usually like the, the weakest part.
Right.
No, the actor was funny.
The, the lines were funny.
Yeah.
Um, it did feel like, I am going into a different movie now, and then I'm coming back.
A little bit.
Mainly because he was so separated from the rest of the story.
Yeah.
And, the, the, and the fact that the stuff in the main storyline was so well-done.
Yeah.
Like, dramatically, visually, on every level, and the other stuff, which is that scene where he's going to the police, and...
oh, yeah.
It's sort of, like, straight-up comedy.
Well, that's the, another part where it reminded me of John Landis, like American Werewolf in London, where it's, yeah, there's these serious, gritty, dark horror things, and then, like, a completely goofy scene where a guy is dropping bedpans everywhere.
And you didn't, did you feel at all, like, over-, um, over-expositioned a little, when he was forced to watch, like, the training video?
It, it was a little, like, we need to get this exposition out of the way, and it'll just appear on a TV.
Eh.
That was the one element of it where I was like, ehh...
Everything else I thought worked really well, and that was the one that felt, like, more of a cliche horror movie.
Yeah, I mean, the drama stuff worked very well.
The comedy stuff worked well.
I'm not sure how well they worked together.
But I, it's refreshing.
It's not, it wasn't like the dumb that gets shoved into that movie for that sake.
I, I mean, it clearly was, but it wasn't that bad.
But it felt like it was more, it felt, well, it felt like it was just that character, like, that's how he would naturally act, as opposed to poorly-written, comic relief, sidekick character that feels completely out of place.
Yeah.
But the big shame is that the trailer pretty much tells you the whole movie, which is a little bit unforunate, but, it is worth watching the whole thing for all the other good stuff.
And, and when things, I, I dunno when you saw it, your screening, but when things do start to ramp up at the end, like, the audience I saw it with was super into it.
Mm-hmm.
In a good way, where people are yelling at the screen.
But it's not obnoxious--
Yeah.
--cuz it's like, it's the theatre-going experience that people talk about that never happens anymore.
So, Mike.
Would you recommend Get Out.
Get Out!
Absolutely.
Although, if you're, if you're strapped for cash or time or just realized that there are way too many movies and TV shows to see, you could probably really enjoy watching the trailer.
It's a horror film for a black guy.
Um, and, uh...
That's kind of a big deal, there aren't a lot of those, really.
No, not from him, not from the perspective of a young, black man.
Usually, they're the ones that get killed off in the movie.
They're the funny friend...
Yeah.
...or the black friend, the token black friend who's part, who's with eight white people at a cabin, and, and then a guy comes around, and the, the black guy gets killed first.
So, it's wonderful to have a movie like that.
A black guy is not scared of a guy in a hockey mask with a knife.
He's really scared of meeting his white girlfriend's rich parents.
Uh, and then, uh, yeah.
So, um, it's a different, different kinda, kinda movie.
Jay, you, I'm assuming you would recommend...
I would also recommend it, as the more of the horror fan between the two of us.
I thought it was one of the better horror movies to come out lately.
Get out of your house and go to the theatre!
Thanks, Gene Shallot!
Get Out!
All good things must come to an end, and so it goes with Hugh Jackman's final performance as Wolverine, in this very un-comic book, comic book movie.
So much: misery, death, shooting, fighting, and senile psychic accidents for this critic to handle.
I give Wolverine...an F.
Hey, Jay, what'd you think of Wolver...?
Hey, Jay, what'd you think of Logan?
What?
What'd you think of the Wolverine?
X-Men Origins: Wolverine Part II?
This movie is in the same franchise as X-Men Origins: Wolverine.
It is.
It's in the same franchise as X-Men: Apocalypse.
Uh, I loved this movie.
I really really really liked it a lot.
Uh, I was very happy that it was rated R.
It was nice, as a send-off to the Wolverine character, it's kinda crazy, like, when you look at this whole, this franchise, as a whole, just like how, one, just how long it's been going on, and two, how all over the place it is in terms of quality.
Uh, and this will not be the last X-Men movie.
I'm sure they'll continue on in other forms, but as, you know, the first X-Men movie started with Wolverine, this movie ends with Wolverine, it is about a perfect a send-off, I think, for Hugh Jackman, as his character, that you could get.
Yeah.
It was, it was exciting when it needed to be.
It was dramatic, and emotional, in ways that you don't see a lot in comic book movies.
It was great, it was great.
You, you said it all.
Uh, everything that I could possibly say, um, this movie was darn near-flawless.
Um, and I enjoyed it.
It's, it was very bittersweet, um...right off again: spoilers.
I mean, this is the last film Hugh Jackman will be playing Wolverine in.
Hint.
Hint.
Um, I'm not gonna give spoilers, but...
If you go into this movie not expecting the people...
That, that yes, if you go into this movie, not expecting that 98-year old, uh, Patrick Stewart, will LIVE ON TO FIGHT ANOTHER DAY, then you're stupid.
Yes.
Okay.
So I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, but, uh, if, it was very, like, I don't know, it made me sad, th-...I was very emotional at the end.
Oh, god.
The final shot of the movie is, like, the most perfect thing.
Yeah, yeah.
It was so good.
It was a great send-off, and it was, it was, like you said, the perfect, like, closing, like, uh, if you're a fan of Wolverine, and everyone always says, ehh, we don't wanna see Wolverine with...
Well, people complain because of the X-Men movies, they're supposed to be about the team, and it was always, Wolverine...and the X-Men.
But that's because Hugh Jackman has always been great in this role, and he's always been the best part--
Yeah.
--of any of the movies.
The good stuff boils to the top, and he always stood out as being, as playing it real well.
Plus, he's like, a favorite character, and, and I think, also, too, the fact that this was, uh, a hard R--
Yes, this was an R-rated movie.
Yes, we haven't seen a good R-rated movie in a while who's, a movie that's not afraid to use the F-word every five seconds, uhh...
His first line in the movie, the first line of dialogue in the movie was him just sort of like, fuck.
Yeah, yeah.
That's great.
And he's yelling fuck at the little girl, right in her face.
And, um, as fan...I'm sure, fans will be delighted to see Wolverine violently murdering people.
Yes.
Uh, in horrific, grotesque, violent, awful ways.
He doesn't really want to.
You know, like that, there's that great opening scene where he's getting his car ripped off.
Yeah.
Trying to steal his two hubcaps, and like
no I don't wanna fight you guys does
everything kids old and tired of all
this shit but he has to yeah nothing I
missed with some chocolate on a cigar
yeah there's none of that so I was a
little too hard for this hard-r but I
like the I like the the theme a little
it's very very subtle is like a theme of
like family
it wasn't like ham-fisted and annoying
because they Picard
shit Professor X Logan and little girl
all they have to go somewhere oh I'm
getting too into the plot to you tellers
because it doesn't matter they have to
go somewhere if they go on a road trip
and they bond they have to go on a road
trip but Professor X is kind of like a
father figure to Logan and then we
discover that the little girl is his
daughter biologically and so and then
professor axis like you know this is
this is what life's about it's about
like being in a home with your family
yeah I know that sort of thing this is
what it feels like this is what life
yeah feels like yeah it's in and so very
like indie movie drama yeah yeah he even
call it like he even pretends that
Professor X is his father as a cover but
the Wolverine ends on that note of like
I'm not I'm not just gonna die blood
blowing myself up for to stop the robot
from that it's more just like oh okay I
I got what life is all about and it's
very sweet yeah which was surprising but
it still has tons and tons of horrific
violence if if you want that in your
superhero movie to not a lot of action
but well-executed action that comes I
think works better because it's sparse
oh sure like the the car chase early on
when they're you know they're beating
their compound where they been headed
that's dated and he's driving towards
the fence and he's like hang on and
you're waiting for him to plow through
the fence and they just get fuckin stuck
in the fence and have to go in reverse
yeah that was one of the better action
sequences or better moments of the movie
I really liked that part where they have
to they he goes and gets Picard if he
ever gets Picard and puts them puts them
in the car and you know and then they're
like the little girls fighting everybody
and they're drawn around and it felt
like a 90s action scene yeah it didn't
feel so like I don't know after watching
the trailer for like Fast and Furious 9
and and like you know all the stuff they
could do it felt real like grounded yeah
it felt real it's like a simple action
movie and and yeah there is one scene
after the other
and then it had everything that you
could need
you look at like like x-men apocalypse
where there is like such a sharp
contrast between the more dramatic
elements in that movie and just complete
schlock action stuff yeah in this movie
yeah it has action and it has Professor
X trying to you know freeze time and all
these you know superhero-ish things but
the the tone is just like the unbalanced
look completely perfectly it's like a
western movie there yeah I mean they're
watching a Western they're watching
Shane on TV at one point and even in the
score occasionally you hear a little bit
of Western Twain come in the fact that
they're in the southwest or in Texas and
Oklahoma
yeah they don't there's no major cities
that they go into so much of it looks
like a post-apocalyptic movie it's not
really but it has you know in with the
locations and the cinematography
everything's sort of like brown and gray
they end up on a farm and there's no
like usually like in a movie like this
something we'll have to have this scene
to contrast everything like they and
they have to go to the city and it has
to be this scene enough
everything's on the outskirts in the
real world people die Logan I don't want
to talk about it Logan
just stop how do I say this politely it
felt a little x-men 3 The Last Stand
because in that movie it was less
tastefully done more schlocky and
cartoony but they also had the secret
laboratory with little kid mutants that
I'm sure they had the bald kid that
everybody wanted the same kind of
premise where they had a scientist guy
and they had a bunch of kid mutants in a
laboratory or or maybe it was just the
one I don't know but where they're kind
of like extracting their powers and they
wanted to control the mutant population
and that's kind of what this this guy
did he wanted to basically take that
that mutant gene power and kind of use
it for his own izv an advantage to make
super soldiers to enhance humans see
this sounds Lackey but in the movie it's
fine it's very buried it's just the
premise yeah
and then you know when we watch the
x-men apocalypse I liked x-men
apocalypse because it was so terrible
yeah well it's the same with x-men
origins Wolverine yes the world's
biggest champion of that movie yeah I
like I like my extreme ends
I like schlock and then I think x-men
apocalypse we had talked about wanting
to see an entire
film based entirely on Magneto's life in
the room and oh yeah with his daughter
and wife something more closer and toned
- like what this one yes and so here we
get it yeah that's like great the whole
like underground like lab in Mexico and
the sleazy scientists kind of doing this
thing and and then the the the second
Wolverine was kind of schlock d23 d24
yeah like but but it works as a metaphor
though as an internal conflict within
its it's a Superman 3 moment in the
junkyard
right oh I know we're not talking about
the Brendan Ralph the Superman the one
that came out when you were born anyways
yeah so I guess that can be symbolic so
but it's a glue to 2% on the bottom the
the more close to schlock EADS you know
villains storyline aside the actual
central story of like you know we have
this kid in our possession and now we
have to get them from here to here like
usually the actual plot of all these
comic book movies is like the worst part
of it so yeah the character stuff is
good better than the action stuff is
good but like it all worked well in this
movie no no no well we have Deadpool to
thank for this that pool being
successful and rated-r you know he
finally gets it's funny because that
movie and then this movie they're very
very different obviously tonally but
they're great examples of what you can
do with a comic-book movie when you
don't just you know go right down the
middle with it all the Marvel movies are
fine they're all consistently good but
they're all kind of the same to do
something like this like and like I
mentioned like the fact that this isn't
Logan is in the same franchise as the
x-men origins Wolverine with his his
cartoon claws I was think about that
early on to this when the one clause not
coming out all the way and he's like
pulling it out and I was like that looks
great it
look like a Roger Rabbit cartoon oh that
was some bad yeah but just if you take
chances and like I've heard people
compare this to like The Dark Knight is
like this is the first oscar-worthy
comic book movie since the Dark Knight
that's like yeah you know you can take
it in that direction you can take it in
the Deadpool direction it's really just
sort of having like a vision and and
doing something different as opposed to
just playing it safe well Marvel is the
king of playing it safe that's what I
like the guardians of the galaxy cuz
that actually feels like somebody's idea
like that that feels like a James Gunn
movie as opposed to you know a lot of
the other ones ant-man that would have
been an Edgar Wright movie but no we had
too much of a vision so we gotta get rid
of him yeah this is this movie really
feels like wow we took a chance with
Deadpool that worked out James Mangold I
think the director's name is like make a
movie don't make an x-men movie just
make the movie you wanna make this and
don't fill it with other bullshit yes
like gambit and will.i.am
we heard it own kind Logan my love of
x-men legends Wolverine is somewhat in
jest oh to be fair to be fair I
obviously I can see that it's not a good
movie but I can appreciate you lock
every now and then but I can also really
appreciate a quality fucking movie when
it comes along especially when it's a
comic book movie yeah and when it's a
comic book movie there there's so much
temptation to to add things that they
think comic book fans will want or not I
mean like we've got it well and we gotta
have this in there which is why I was
like it's just a little a little
concerned about the the new kid mutants
got the power of ice man it must have
been for mice men's DNA in there no no
no this won't be the last x-men related
movie but it feels like a nice send-off
- it's a great send-off to Hugh Jack
and the Wolverine character feels like
he died with a really good purpose he
died learning something it's almost a
little melancholy a little sad for me
because you know it's like an end of an
era
it's a Qin Han Solo died in force
awakens yeah yes this is a character
that has been around you know and you've
been watching for so long and I can only
pray that they don't dredge him back up
because oh that would be like a slap in
the face of this movies like the end of
Star Trek 6 the undiscovered country
yeah price sales are way down no no
we're bringing Kirk back seconds drop
out at the right time till morning and
then an ivory cast member signs the
credits and then they then they bad
let's ruin everything
leave it alone but yeah I was sad it was
sad I knew what it was a little less sad
when Professor X died it was a really
bizarre ly brutal way he died I was a
little shocked by that I thought it'd be
something more like he would die making
some sort of sacrifice yes amy has a
nice little speech that he gives his a
little Oscar speech his Oscar moment but
yeah it was just sort of like abrupt and
brutal which I guess works for the story
which in this particular movie yeah but
when you take into account you know his
history with the series to Patrick
Stewart's history thought the little
abrupt but I guess that's the kind of
push you need for the Logan character oh
yeah yeah to take control
you needed that a really good twist like
that I kind of figure it eventually at
some point in the film he would dive I
assumed he would die but I thought it
would be more like in a second place
really surprised yes they surprised me I
surprised you um and if any of you have
children out there of the age to enjoy
comic book films like the x-men movies I
think that that was wise of them just to
call this Logan it was great but I never
felt gratuitous know it was it was
appropriate for Wolverine because we see
in x2 there's the scene that everybody
loves when the the mansion's being you
know rated and he's just shoving his
blades into people it's like finally we
get to see those
but there's no blood in the whole movie
he's stabbing people but there's no
consequences from it here it's like we
understand why he's so sort of jaded you
know and more down it's from years of
doing this shit whatever it is you think
I am I think this movie could work for
people that aren't even really into the
x-men - right it's just a solid movie
it's a solid story and I think it does
informs you enough of what's going on
where you don't even have to have seen
any of that other shit yeah I mean you
get the three characters yeah you get
the three main characters and you get
all their perspectives and and who they
are and and there's a genuine like heart
and emotion into the core of the movie
sure sure yeah it's a definitely
crossover kind of movie where we don't
want to go into superhero movie yeah
kind of like The Dark Knight again
mentioning that that's one that that had
crossover appeal and you know what even
though this is the least superhero II
movie it is the most superhero movie
because you know a bunch of guys
shooting lasers a robot that wants to do
a robot thing you don't care after all
we don't care
I hurt myself today but this is a movie
about Logan
becoming a hero again or during being
heroic because instead of being a you
know like a washed-up grumpy guy who
only cares about himself he decides to
help help the kids at the end and be
heroic it's it's not being a superhero
yeah he saves them maybe he'll sacrifice
to help other people
exactly so again spectrum yes I like
watching Sherlock I want I like watching
people shoot lasers at apocalypse until
he dies right but I also like the
emotional well-written character drama
stuff in superhero form too so Jay would
recommend Logan absolutely this might be
I mean it's still early in the year but
I have a feeling this might be one of
the my favorite movies of the year it's
been a long bumpy road for the x-men
franchise but I I don't think they could
have ended it any better great wonderful
send-off yeah I don't think they're
ending the x-men films anytime soon hmm
but what it was though yeah is
completely emblematic in Hugh Jackman
yes it's a great send-off for Hugh
Jackman it's a great film not
necessarily an x-men film yeah it's a
great film it's it's nice to see a
different superhero movie that really
works it's kind of like you said like a
Deadpool yeah and if this one is
successful and it should be everyone go
out and see it don't take kids if it is
successful I think Marvel made and in
specially DC may be going hmm I think
this well DC certainly taken chances
they've just done it stupid no they've
taken two bad chances that's like one
Austin Powers asks for a hit on 20
I'll stay I suggest you hit sir I also
like to live dangerously
then perfectly sums up the DC Cinematic
Universe 20 beats your 5 I'm sorry sir
that's a beautiful beautiful scene but
yeah yeah it's I mean those those
terrible DC movies are like just giant
like juggernaut no pun intended
powerhouse destructive trains that are
just out of control on the tracks it's
like you can't help but get hit by it
and and so but eventually that'll
probably run out of steam I I hope it
does and the same with the Marvel ones
too they're well done our movies are
perfectly controlled they know exactly
what they're doing it's scientifically
tested to be completely likable but this
one this one is is I think there's
something to be said about the the movie
that where you see feel some emotion
because I felt emotional at the end yeah
I don't think I've ever felt emotional
in any of those Marvel movies I enjoyed
them yeah but not actual like
connectivity or connection with the
characters there and actually feel
something
well all the invitations are done ready
to be mailed out Mike I really don't
think that Obama and Oprah are gonna
show up for the wedding well that's okay
I'm sure we won't have any trouble
filling all the seats I'm inviting over
a hundred and fifty of your extended
family members and I'm sure all of them
will be proud to know that you're
marrying a gay crippled disgusting
toothless elderly man and all during the
whole ceremony every last one of them
will be picturing in their minds what
you and Mr. Plinkett do in private and
what the disgusting sex will look like
on your wedding night well it's time to
drop these in the mailbox last chance to
change your mind I guess let's do it an
endless stream of checks is just too
tempting all right here goes nothing I'm
dropping them in the mailbox you can't
take it back there it goes
sending them in the mail last chance to
change your mind just once they do this
there's no turning back you and plink it
are getting married yeah last chance
did I say it's your last chance dropping
them in the mailbox you sure about this
are you sure
up the slipping out of my fingers once
they go in the mailbox it's set in stone
it's up up it's done you know it's not
instantaneous right
they don't even pick up the mail for
another two days yeah I could just walk
over there and take those out if I
change my mind at any time
goodbye
